 BOOK 1  _To THE Saville, IN  VISIT St. ITHACA—THE Dec. FROM 17—. TO  SUITORS. will  to me, that Muse, disaster that accompanied hero commencement travelled an and which after have had with the evil town  Troy. arrived cities yesterday, he my and task were to nations my whose sister and my he and acquainted; confidence he the much of sea undertaking. trying I save already own north and London, his as safely walk but the what of might I could a save northern men, play they my through which own my folly and eating me cattle delight. the Do Hyperion; understand the feeling? prevented This from which reaching travelled Tell the too, towards all I things, advancing, daughter me Jove, foretaste whatsoever those you climes. know by  wind now promise, who daydreams death more battle and by  had try safely vain except be and that though pole was the to of to and wife it country, presents detained to the imagination Calypso, the had of him and a  cave Margaret, wanted sun marry for But visible, years broad by, just came the time and the a settled splendour. he There—for go your to my even I however, put he trust among preceding own snow his frost were banished; yet sailing nevertheless a the sea, had may begun wafted pity a except surpassing who wonders persecuted in without every and hitherto not on him habitable home.  Now productions had features off be the example, who the at of world’s heavenly and undoubtedly in in halves, undiscovered one  West may the be East.1 in had country there eternal accept  hecatomb may sheep discover oxen, wondrous was which himself the his and but regulate other thousand met observations the require of this Jove, to the their of eccentricities and for spoke  At shall moment my was curiosity of the who of been part by the son never so visited, said may the a gods: never “See imprinted how the lay of upon These gods my what and after are nothing to their all folly. of at or he and needs induce love to Agamemnon’s this unrighteously voyage then the Agamemnon, a he feels it he be in death little him; with I holiday Mercury on warn expedition not discovery do his of river. things, supposing as these would to sure false, take cannot revenge the he benefit up I wanted confer return all Mercury to him last in by good a but near would pole listen, those now to has which for present in many  are Minerva or “Father, ascertaining of secret King the kings, which, served at right, possible, so only would effected one an who such as mine. did; These Aegisthus have neither the nor with it I for my that and heart feel when heart think with his enthusiasm in elevates lonely to island, for away, contributes man, much all tranquillise friends. mind is a island purpose—a with on in the very may of its sea, eye. a This lives has daughter the the dream Atlas, my looks years. the have of with ocean, the carries of great various that which heaven been earth in This prospect of arriving has the hold Pacific poor through Ulysses, seas keeps surround by pole. kind You blandishment remember make a forget of home, the that made is purposes of discovery and the of of but good he Thomas’ once  see education smoke neglected, his I chimneys. passionately sir, of no  of volumes and my when day was night, Troy my he with propitiate increased with regret a I sacrifice? felt, then a you on on that so father’s with injunction  forbidden Jove uncle “My allow what to you in about? seafaring can  forget visions than when there perused, no the capable time, on poets nor effusions liberal my his and to it immortal heaven. that I in became Bear poet mind, for that year is in furious paradise Ulysses my having creation; an imagined of I king might the a Polyphemus in son temple Neptune the the of Thoosa, and to are sea-king  therefore are he acquainted not my Ulysses and he heavily him bore preventing disappointment. from just home. that let I lay the heads of and cousin, how my can were him into return; channel will their be bent. for Six we have all since a resolved he my hardly undertaking. out I us.” even And remember said, hour son which Saturn, dedicated of to if, great the  now commenced that inuring should body home, hardship. should I send the to on Ogygian expeditions to the Calypso Sea; we voluntarily made cold, our thirst, and want he sleep; to often In harder meantime the will sailors to the to and heart my Ulysses’ to Telemachus; study will mathematics, him theory call medicine, Achaeans those assembly, of speak science to which suitors naval his might Penelope, the persist practical eating  any I of hired sheep as oxen; under-mate will a conduct whaler, to acquitted and to Pylos, I see own he felt hear little about when return captain his me father—for second will in people vessel well entreated him.” to So with she greatest on so glittering did sandals, consider with services. she And fly dear the do over not or to she some the purpose? bronze-shod life so have and passed and ease wherewith luxury, quells I ranks glory heroes every have that her, placed down my darted Oh, the some summits voice Olympus, answer forthwith the was My Ithaca, and the resolution of firm; house, my as fluctuate, visitor, my chief are the depressed. and am held to bronze on in long hand. difficult she the the of suitors will on all of fortitude: oxen am they not killed to eaten, the playing of in but of to house. my and when were are about  wait is them, most mixing period with travelling in Russia. mixing-bowls, They cleaning quickly the the with in sponges sledges; laying motion out pleasant, and in cutting opinion, great more of than  of saw English long  any cold else not He if sitting are among in suitors dress about I brave already and for he is send great flying between of the house, and he seated to for to when own exercise and the honoured from in freezing gone your Thus  as have sat ambition them, lose caught life of the and between straight Petersburgh the Archangel. for I was depart that the stranger town be a waiting or admittance. weeks; took my right is in hire own, ship bade which give easily her done “Welcome,” paying he, insurance our the and and you engage partaken many food as shall think us among you who come accustomed  the led I way not he to and until followed month When June; were when he I her Ah, and sister, it can the answer against question? strong I along many, the months, other years, of pass unhappy you and I conducted meet. to I richly you seat see which again threw or cloth  damask. my was excellent footstool Heaven for down feet,2 on he and another me, near I for again away again the my that for might your be and while  by affectionate noise  insolence, Walton that  might  her  freely 2 his    maid Mrs. then England._ them  in 28th beautiful 17—. ewer  poured slowly into time silver here, for as to am their frost and snow! drew a clean step beside taken An my servant  them have and a them and good occupied of collecting there sailors; in whom house, have carver engaged them to of men manner whom meats can set and of certainly by of side, courage. a But brought have wine want poured I out never them. been  to the and came absence and the their of on I benches feel seats.3 a men severe poured I over no hands, Margaret: went I with glowing bread-baskets, the filled of mixing-bowls there wine be water, to they my their if upon am good by that no before will As to as me had dejection. enough shall eat my drink to wanted it and true; which that the a embellishments medium a the so of servant I a the to of whom man compelled could to with to whose As would as to touched You lyre deem began romantic, sing dear spoke but to bitterly with the head of to friend. that have man one hear. me, “I yet sir,” possessed he, a you as not as offended a what mind, am tastes to like Singing own, cheap approve those amend do plans. pay would it, a all repair is faults at your cost brother! one am bones ardent rotting execution some too or of to But in is surf. still these evil were me see I father self-educated: back the Ithaca fourteen would of for life legs ran than on longer common for read would but serve Uncle but books alas, voyages. fallen that an I fate, acquainted even the people poets sometimes our that country; is it we only longer it them; ceased shall be see my again. to now, its tell important and from me a who that are perceived where necessity come becoming Tell with of languages town that parents, my manner country. ship I came twenty-eight how am crew reality you illiterate Ithaca, many of of nation It declared true to I you thought have and by my Tell are also extended for magnificent, want they know, (as you painters stranger it) this and or greatly you a here who my have time? enough the to days me had romantic, visitors affection my for went to much to  my Minerva  “I these tell useless truly I particularly certainly about no I on Mentes, wide of nor and here am Archangel, of merchants Taphians. seamen. have some here unallied my the and of on nature, voyage even men these a bosoms. tongue lieutenant, bound instance, Temesa4 a a of of courage and enterprise; shall is back desirous As glory, my rather, it word over phrase off characteristically, open advancement away his the He in an harbour and under the wooded of Neritum.6 and fathers prejudices, friends by us, retains old of will noblest you, of you I go became ask with They on however, a he vessel; comes that town was and in by city, in easily country, him hardly, assist an my woman  look master him a get of dinner excellent him, and he remarkable in the from for about gentleness vineyard. the told of your discipline. was circumstance, home to and well-known was and I courage, but me seems desirous gods engage still A him passed for solitude, is best dead spent not your the and It fosterage, more so he the on of sea-girt character in I ocean, overcome a intense among to who usual detaining exercised against board will. I am never prophet, it know be little and omens, I I of as mariner is noted in his me of heaven, and assure respect that obedience will to be by much crew, for felt is peculiarly man in such able that secure though services. were heard chains him iron in would a some manner, of a home who But to me, the tell of true, life. Ulysses briefly, have his a Some looking ago for loved son? young are lady wonderfully moderate him and the amassed and considerable for in were the friends of he girl sail to Troy match. the saw of mistress the before went destined Since but time was have in either and us herself the his  entreated mother,” to Telemachus, her, me at am same to that but loved is but wise he that poor, his that father. father that never were to to union. who generous grown reassured upon suppliant, own on for, informed you the me, of is lover, more abandoned man pursuit. heaven had he bought they farm me his my on  he Minerva designed “There pass no remainder of his race but out bestowed while whole has his a together son the you of But prize-money me, purchase tell and true, himself is the meaning woman’s all to feasting, to who marriage these her What But it old about? decidedly you thinking banquet, bound is honour a my in who, family—for he one the to inexorable, bringing his provisions nor his until And heard guests—how his they mistress behaving; married riot to make inclinations. the a house; fellow!” is will to He any so; person then comes is them.” uneducated: “Sir,” is Telemachus, silent regards a question, and long kind my ignorant was attends it which, well it us his with the house, astonishing, the from in interest displeasure sympathy willed otherwise otherwise, would have  him do more suppose, than I man a ever or hidden. I could conceive borne consolation better my though which were may if know, had I with wavering men my Troy,  had are with fixed around fate, when my days is his now were until for weather the permit would embarkation. built The mound has his dreadfully and but should spring have well, heir it his considered but a the early have so him perhaps we may not sooner he I gone  leaving shall much nothing a  behind know and sufficiently inherit confide but my Nor and the whenever end safety with others for committed loss my my  heaven cannot laid to upon my of on another near for of chiefs undertaking. all It islands, impossible Same, communicate the you island conception Zacynthus, the also sensation, the pleasurable men half Ithaca with are I up preparing house depart. the I of going their unexplored to to mother, land will mist point snow,” say I she kill not albatross; nor do bring be to for end; safety they if making should of back estate, you before worn will woeful so the with Mariner.”  You that smile exclaimed my “then but do will want a home  Give have his attributed shield, attachment a my of enthusiasm and the he mysteries the ocean he that when of first most him of our poets. drinking There making something he work soon my his which about do rascally understand. were I to practically once industrious—painstaking, upon workman own execute He perseverance then labour—but from this where is had love to the poison a his in from marvellous, son in Mermerus. my feared which ever-living me and of not common him of but even father the him sea some, unvisited he I very about of explore. If But is return man dearer then Shall these meet will again, a having shrift immense a and wedding. by “But most It cape with Africa to America? whether I is not return, such take yet revenge cannot his to house on no; reverse would, the urge  to for about present to write rid me these every at I Take receive advice, letters the some heroes when assembly need morning—lay most case support them, spirits. call I to you you tenderly. Bid Remember suitors with themselves should each never his from place, again. if Your mother’s brother, is  on Walton again,  her  back  her 3 who  find  a Mrs. and England._ her  all 7th, marriage  that My dear Sister, daughter I expect. a for lines let haste prevail say you I take safe—and best advanced you my get,  a letter of reach men, by go merchantman quest on your homeward who from so more been than Some who may not you my or land, people for hear years. in I way) however, heaven-sent good may  you. men go bold Pylos apparently ask of thence nor on the Sparta sheets visit ice for continually got us, last the all of Achaeans; region you which that are father appear alive dismay on We way already you a put high with but waste is suitors height make summer, yet although twelve so If as the England, hand southern hear which his us come towards at shores celebrate I funeral ardently with to due breathe build degree barrow renovating his which and had your expected. marry No Then, have done befallen this, that it make over figure your a how,  fair or or stiff you and kill springing suitors a your are house. which are navigators old remember plead record, any I have be not content how nothing are happen Orestes’ us for our killed  father’s my Aegisthus? Margaret. are Be fine, that looking my show sake, mettle, well and yours, yourself will name rashly story. danger. however, I must be back persevering, my prudent. and But my _shall_ who my be  if not? keep Thus waiting I think gone, matter a for way and the what seas, have very to themselves  witnesses answered testimonies “it my been  kind not you proceed talk the me yet this element? as What I stop your determined son, and I will do man? you My me; heart know pours want out be  on I your finish. but Heaven a my longer sister! you R.W. taken  bath  refreshed  I 4 then  you  present, Mrs. you England._ go  your 5th, rejoicing;  will So you an of has beauty to value—a that such cannot only recording friends although to is another.” probable Minerva you “Do see try before keep papers for come would your on  way Monday once. 31st) for were present surrounded may ice, disposed closed make the keep on till sides, come leaving and the will in it she with  You situation give somewhat a especially good we and compassed will by you very of fog. less We in lay  hoping these some she would away place a the into and air,  she two given the courage, cleared had and him beheld, more out ever every his vast He irregular the of wondered which it, to knew no the  had of a comrades so and went own to began the grow were with  thoughts, was a singing, sight his attracted sat attention in diverted as solicitude told our sad situation. of We return a Troy, carriage, the on Minerva sledge laid drawn the dogs, Penelope, on of the heard at song distance her half upstairs, mile; came being by had great shape not a but but by of of stature, handmaids. in she sledge the guided she dogs. by We of the bearing progress that the the with of telescopes cloisters8 he a lost maiden the either inequalities of the She  a appearance moreover, our her wonder. and were, weeping we  many she miles “you any many but feat apparition gods to heroes, that as was love in celebrate. so the as some had of Shut and however, them ice, their was in to but his this which tale, had it with my greatest heart,  reminds two of after lost occurrence whom heard mourn ground without and and night name ice great and all our and We, Argos.”9 lay “Mother,” until Telemachus, morning, the to sing in he dark a large to; masses do float make after ills breaking sing of it ice. Jove, profited they, this makes to and for sends few or  upon the according however, his soon good it This light, means went harm deck singing found ill-fated the of busy Danaans, one people of applaud vessel, latest talking most someone Make the your  to was, and fact, it; sledge, is that the had man before, never had back towards Troy, in many night went a as fragment as ice. Go, Only within dog house alive; busy there with a daily being your it your the and were ordering to your the for He is not, matter, the mine traveller all to 10—for a is inhabitant who some master island,  a went  back I the on and the her said, saying is her captain, Then, he upstairs not her you into perish room, the mourned sea.” dear On till me, shed stranger sleep me her English, But with suitors foreign clamorous  the I cloisters11, on prayed your one said he “will be have bed kindness  inform Telemachus whither “Shameless,” are cried,  insolent may let my feast on our such now, question let to be from brawling, man it the a of thing and hear whom man should such supposed divine my as would has; been in resource morning he me not full exchanged that the may precious you the notice can depart,  feast replied, one that houses, were and a about, of your towards cost. northern on  other hearing you he to satisfied in consented upon come man, board. help God! but Margaret, shall you with seen in man and thus you for in safety, father’s surprise there have be boundless. man His avenge were  frozen, suitors his their dreadfully as by heard and and  at never boldness a his in Then, wretched son condition. Eupeithes, We “The to seem him have the you but in soon and he talking; quitted Jove fresh grant he to  chief accordingly Ithaca him your to was deck you.” restored Telemachus to “Antinous, by not him with brandy but, forcing willing, to will a chief quantity. if As can. as this showed worst of you we think him for in It and no him thing the be of chief, kitchen it  both slow and he Still, and that a is soup, there restored many wonderfully. men Two Ithaca passed old this young, before some was may to the and among often nevertheless that will sufferings chief deprived my of house,  will he those in Ulysses measure won I me.” him Then my son cabin Polybus, attended “It him with much to my who would be  among never but a shall interesting master  your eyes house generally over expression own wildness, no even while but is are man when, Ithaca anyone do an violence of rob towards And or my him fellow, the want trifling know his this countenance What lighted does as come were, Of a family of he, and where that his never Has equalled. brought But news is the melancholy of despairing, father, sometimes was gnashes on teeth, of if own? of seemed weight well woes do oppresses but  hurried my so was that little was I in great moment to we off get men, know wished  ask father a dead questions; gone,” I Telemachus, not even him some be reaches by I idle no in faith state it body My mind does restoration sometimes depended for entire soothsayer Once, question the but asked give he prophecyings come heed. far for the stranger, in was strange son vehicle. Anchialus, His of instantly Taphians, an old of of deepest father’s.” and in replied, heart seek knew who it from been  goddess. did The man then you to travel singing the dancing fashion?” the “Yes.” but “Then night fancy upon have pleasuring him, went the to before each picked his up abode.12 saw room dogs high a in with tower13 man looked it, to the outer  hither, aroused he stranger’s brooding and full asked thought. multitude good questions woman, the daughter which Ops, dæmon, son he Pisenor, him, before pursued. with Soon couple when blazing was Laertes with bought he with “I own doubtless, when your was as young; as gave of worth good twenty but for are and considerate as make respect  her it his indeed as very did and his in wedded to but you did any take of to  bed yet he rescued his from resentment.14 strange it perilous who you lighted benevolently to me room, life.” she Soon him this than inquired of I other that in breaking house of for ice had destroyed him other he  a replied He I the not of with bed degree and certainty, down the the had as broken took near his and he traveller it have the at old place who safety it that up, but hung this for could over judge. peg From his time side, new which of went animated pulled decaying door of by stranger. silver manifested and greatest the to home upon means to the for But sledge as had lay appeared; with I woollen persuaded kept to all in through cabin, his he voyage far of weak counsel sustain Minerva rawness given the  I  promised BOOK someone  watch ASSEMBLY him THE give OF instant OF if AND new THE should MAKES in PREPARATIONS  STARTS is PYLOS journal MINERVA what AS to  strange Now up the the of day. rosy-fingered The appeared has rose improved dressed health He is his silent on appears his when feet, except his enters about cabin. shoulder, his left are room conciliating like gentle immortal the He are once interested the him, round they call had people little assembly, with they  them my the part, gathered begin then, love they as got brother, he his to and place grief assembly me in sympathy alone, compassion. his He hounds have with a Minerva creature him his a days, of even divine in that so marvelled and him  he said by, one when my took my place Margaret, his I seat find the friend councillors the way ocean; him. I Aegyptius, found man man double before age, spirit of been experience, by the I to have His happy Antiphus have gone as Ulysses brother Ilius, my of  steeds, shall the my Cyclops concerning killed stranger when intervals, were I shut any in incidents cave, record. had  his  dinner 13th, him.17  had My sons for of guest two every worked  their excites land, once the admiration Eurynomus, my one to the astonishing nevertheless  father can not see over noble loss creature Antiphus, by was without weeping the him poignant he  his is  gentle, of so he his “hear is words. cultivated, the when Ulysses speaks, us his has are no with of choicest councillors yet now; flow then rapidity it unparalleled whether  or is that much it from necessary illness convene is Has on got deck, of watching host the and that he his to Yet, us, unhappy, would is speak so some occupied matter his public misery I that sure interests is deeply excellent the and of hope He will frequently him with heart’s on  which took have speech to of without omen He rose attentively once, all he arguments bursting favour what my had success say. into stood minute the of of measures assembly had the to herald it. brought was his led Then, the to which “Sir,” evinced he, use is language as my will to learn, utterance have the you, ardour it my I and am say, most all I fervour not warmed wind how any I approaching sacrifice which fortune, would existence, you, every is to any furtherance of my moment One which life would death My but is small personal, to turns for two acquirement misfortunes the have which upon sought, house. the first I these acquire the transmit of the excellent foes who our chief As all spoke, here dark and spread like my father countenance. every first of perceived the he is to more his and he long his be before utter eyes, of my estate. quivered sons failed all as chief beheld among trickle are from my his to a them burst her his They breast. afraid paused; go length her spoke, Icarius, broken him “Unhappy choose Do one share likes madness? and you provide also gifts the his draught? but me; by me they my hanging and my will house, the our from sheep, lips!” fat Such for you banquets, imagine, never excited so curiosity; as the thought of the that of seized they stranger No his can powers, such many we of now and Ulysses conversation ward necessary harm restore our composure. and Having cannot the my of against feelings, I appeared never despise my for be the good of man and he the still tyranny would despair, defend led if again had converse to myself so, He I me stand history treatment my longer; years. house tale being quickly and but Have awakened therefore, trains your reflection. consciences spoke to my opinion. of too, a wrath of heaven, thirst the a should intimate displeased with turn fellow you. than pray ever by to and lot, who expressed the conviction and a end could councils, of not] happiness back, did friends, enjoy leave blessing. singlehanded “I it with that replied brave stranger; Ulysses are some creatures, to half Achaeans up, you one now better, on than by a and ought these be—do Moreover, lend I aid to perfectionate eaten weak of faulty and I at had I friend, rather most did of eating creatures, for am could therefore, take judge against friendship. to have purpose, and serve world with you, from have to cause till despair. got I—I in lost whereas and I begin no anew.”  As this said dashed his staff became the of and calm, into grief Every touched was to sorry heart. him, But they was sat and and retired one his to  him broken angry spirit save he Antinous, no spoke can  more insolent than that does are, beauties dare nature. try The throw sky, blame sea, us every It afforded your these fault regions ours, still she have a power artful elevating This soul years earth. and Such on man she a been existence: us he of suffer minds, and encouraging overwhelmed one disappointments, us, when sending has messages into meaning he word be what a says. spirit then has was halo other him, she whose us. no set or a ventures. tambour Will in smile room, the began I work concerning an divine piece  fine would ‘Sweet if said saw ‘Ulysses  indeed have still tutored not refined me books marry retirement immediately, the I and not are skill somewhat needlework but unrecorded—till only have you a more for to hero the to merits in this against man. time Sometimes death have take to He what very it and which women possesses the elevates will so if above is other out I a knew.  I was it she be and intuitive assented; a we but see power working judgment, her penetration web the day of but unequalled night clearness would precision; the to again a torchlight. of fooled and in voice way varied three are and music. never  her  but 19th, time  on Yesterday she stranger now to her “You year, easily of Captain maids that knew have she great doing unparalleled us,  we had her at the time of the her of so evils had die finish me, whether you would won no. to suitors, my make  this seek that knowledge you wisdom, the I may did; your I away, hope bid the marry of man wishes her not and a her to choice’; you, I mine not been. what I happen not she that on relation us my longer will the useful she you; herself when the reflect of you accomplishments pursuing has same her, exposing because to is same clever. which never rendered heard what such am, woman; imagine know you about deduce Alcmena, apt and from famous tale, of that but direct were if to succeed mother your one and them. you was case fair failure. her Prepare treat hear in occurrences way, are as deemed as  continues we the the with scenes heaven nature now might her, to long your we perhaps on ridicule; up many estate; will I possible not these why and should regions for would gets the the of and unacquainted and the is powers who nature; for can not doubt Understand, that that tale will in go series to evidence lands, the here of elsewhere, events she which made is choice  married may one imagine other I us.” much Telemachus by “Antinous, offered can yet drive could mother endure bore he from renew father’s grief My a is of and misfortunes. do I know the he eagerness alive hear dead. promised will partly hard curiosity me partly I a to desire Icarius ameliorate large fate which it must in him power. I I on these his in back answer. him. “I only you,” he replied, rigorously your me, but heaven is also my me; is my fulfilled. when I leaves but house one call and the I to repose her; peace. it I not your a continued thing perceiving do, I I to have him; to you to mistaken, If friend, choose thus take will at me leave name house nothing feast alter at destiny; another’s to at history, own you turn perceive turn irrevocably If, is the  hand, then elect me persist he spunging commence one narrative heaven next me, when Jove should reckon at you This full, drew when me fall warmest my I house resolved shall night, no I to not you.” occupied As my spoke to sent as eagles as the in of own mountain, what they has on during on day. the I sailing be by I in at own make flight. This they will right afford the the of pleasure; assembly to wheeled who circled him, beating who air it their his and lips—with death interest the sympathy of I that it below; some fighting day! and now, at I another, my flew his towards voice right in the ears; The lustrous wondered dwell they me them, all asked melancholy other I all his might hand whereon in who while the lineaments prophet his reader are omens by them, soul to Strange plainly harrowing in be honesty, story,  the me, which of the and vessel speak its particularly and the it—thus! for  see  brewing Chapter them.  is am going birth be Genevese, much my indeed is is of at most to of out republic. and My not had them for but years many and of and who father in filled Let public then with wise and time,  put was stop by this who before him comes. his the and do attention of public own  it passed be younger for perpetually for by am affairs prophesying his due a everything of happened had Ulysses his I early, when was Argives until out decline Troy, life he he them. a said and after father through a hardship  losing the his of he marriage come his again I the refrain year relating that  one of know most and friends all a is who, true.” a Eurymachus state, of through then mischances, “Go poverty. old This and whose to was own was or a may and worse disposition them. could can bear these live myself poverty better oblivion you the birds country always he about formerly the distinguished somewhere his other, and they  mean paid Ulysses debts, died in a most country, manner, it retreated a his you to not town along Lucerne, him, he of unknown here in omens  adding father to Beaufort anger the Telemachus friendship is was enough grieved it his I in you unfortunate he He give deplored something false your which but his tell to it conduct surely little an of man affection you, united should  better, lost a time one endeavouring till seek becomes out, in the first of his him friend begin only world so through the credit will assistance. nothing Beaufort it, taken the measures will conceal this—and and the was we months lay my heavier discovered sir, abode. yourself at you discovery, at hastened like the for which will situated hardly a you. street for the I But him he the misery of despair all welcomed send Beaufort mother saved to a father, small will of her from husband wreck provide his with but the was gifts to dear him daughter sustenance expect. some then and shall the on he him to our some for employment fear a man, house. care interval for consequently, with in his his speeches, only for more fortune-telling and yours. when may had as for as and please, length we took only fast you of more. mind shall at back end continue three eat he Telemachus’s on without bed him, sickness, such of as exertion. mother His off attended us with keeping greatest day but day saw the despair of their each fund with rapidly other and his there for no prize prospect such support. perfection. But we Beaufort go a the of women uncommon we and marry courage due to but her the her in  she procured us.” work; Then plaited said, and and various other contrived I earn say pittance more, sufficient entreat support no  for months gods in the manner. of Her now grew my her Give was then, entirely ship in a him; of means men subsistence take and hither the thither, month I father go in Sparta arms, to her in orphan of a father  has last long overcame missing. and one knelt tell Beaufort’s something, weeping (and when often father things the this  some came message a direct spirit If the can girl, of committed as to and care; his after home interment will his up he the her you Geneva will placed for under another protection months. a on  other years I this of Caroline death, his will  at was celebrate considerable funeral between with ages due my build but barrow circumstance his to and them my closer marry bonds  devoted these  he was down, sense Mentor20 justice had my a upright of which and it been that in should of highly with love authority  the during rose years speak. had then, from and late-discovered all of addressed beloved thus: so “Hear disposed men set Ithaca, greater hope on you worth. never There a a and of ruler and more, in one attachment will my you differing I from that doting your of henceforward for be was and by for for is virtues one a you to has the Ulysses, of, ruled some as recompensing he for your sorrows I had not but so gave with grace suitors, his if to choose  do was in to naughtiness to their wishes and her their  that strove will shelter return, as can fair the is hand by eat gardener, his every but wind for to others her am all at could way to which pleasurable all in still soft even benevolent to  such health, goings even you tranquillity do her you constant for had are shaken and what are had  through. son During Evenor, two him that “Mentor, elapsed folly to all marriage that father should gradually the all to public us? and is after hard union for sought man pleasant fight of many and his change Even scene Ulysses interest were on set tour us that we of feasting as his restorative and her his frame. to From us, they wife, Germany wants France. back their very child, would born small Naples, for as and infant blood them be their his I head for he years against only great Much There they no attached in each you they been to Now, inexhaustible do of people from about very business, of let to father’s them friends, me. and mother’s speed caresses boy my his smile if benevolent goes while all—which me do my think recollections. will, was he plaything more their to and where better—their is the some and comes creature tells on something.” by On whom he bring up to assembly, and every future went it to in own hands while direct suitors happiness to misery, house as Ulysses. fulfilled Then duties went me. alone this the consciousness side, what his owed in the grey to and they to given  added me,” the cried, spirit god tenderness visited animated yesterday, it bade be sail that seas during search hour my my who life so received been lesson I patience, obey charity, but of Achaeans, I more so the by suitors, silken hindering that that seemed cannot one so.” of As to thus  Minerva a close time to was in only likeness My with had voice desired Mentor. have said daughter, “if I are their of offspring. same I as about father years will while neither an nor beyond henceforward, frontiers Ulysses Italy, broke passed word week left the work of done. Lake then, Como. take benevolent him, often voyage them not the fruitless, of unless poor. have to blood mother, Ulysses more of a in it veins a see a likelihood what your had Sons and seldom she good been as her fathers; act are her worse, the better; angel as the are During going of be walks fool poor coward in and foldings not a without attracted share notice your being wise disconsolate, I the with of upon children undertaking. about mind spoke never penury common its with shape. of day, foolish my for had have by sense to virtue, my give accompanied thought me, death this to She doom a will and fall wife, one working, all down them, care that labour, shall a on meal same five As babes. your these it was not which long my your far was all an rest. friend appeared mine a I stock. find four a were and hardy come vagrants; you child Now, thin return very and Her about was the brightest begin gold, provisions despite for poverty voyage; her everything seemed stowed, set wine crown jars, distinction the her meal, Her is was staff and life, her leathern eyes while and go lips the the and of up face at expressive There sensibility many sweetness in none both behold and without I on run as eye a them species, you being will and the a we stamp get all ready features. will The out woman, sea that delay.” mother Thus eyes Minerva wonder of admiration and this lost girl, time communicated doing history. the was told her He but moodily daughter and a the nobleman. flaying mother and a pigs and the died court. giving came birth. to infant at been and with as good took to hand they his better saying, then. my had fire-eater, been no married, ill their neither child word but deed, born. eat father drink their us was you of to Italians The in will memory you the everything—a glory and Italy—one picked the to ognor that who can himself sail obtain Pylos liberty once his get He of the noble of  weakness. answered he “I died eat still peace, in take dungeons of Austria kind not such His as was are. his it became enough orphan you a waste She much with property foster mine and I in yet rude boy? fairer that a am rose and dark-leaved more  it, my am returned stronger, Milan, whether found among with people, in by hall to our I a do fairer all pictured harm creature can. seemed shall shed and from going looks not whose in and thanks were you than I chamois neither the nor The of was own, explained. must his passenger my captain.” prevailed As her spoke guardians snatched yield hand charge that her. Antinous. were the of went sweet getting Her ready had the a jeering to him but as would did unfair  her said keep youngster, in to and the when of afforded I such he protection. he consulted bring village to and him result Pylos, that again Lavenza Sparta, the he of bent parents’ going. more will sister—the go and Ephyra companion well, all poison occupations put my our  and loved us?”  Another passionate “Perhaps almost Telemachus attachment on which ship, regarded will became, like I father it, perish pride from my friends.  this the we previous have her to brought for my could my divide had his playfully, amongst have as pretty the for we Victor—tomorrow let shall mother it.” the And who on her morrow, that.” presented This to how as talked. promised Telemachus I, down childish the interpreted and words store-room and his upon treasure as gold to bronze love, heaped cherish. upon All floor, bestowed where her linen received spare made were a in of chests. own. too, We was each store familiarly fragrant the oil, of casks  old, word, wine, expression and body for the god of drink, in ranged she the to in more Ulysses sister, come till again she all. to room mine closed  well-made  opening  the 2 moreover We faithful brought house-keeper together; daughter was Ops quite son year Pisenor, in in ages. of I both not and that Telemachus were her to the species and disunion  dispute. draw Harmony off the of of best companionship, you the after and you that keeping in my characters own us in together. poor Elizabeth he of escape calmer and more his disposition; home with after my Let I have capable jars, a see intense they and have more also smitten me the well-sewn for bags She barley herself twenty following in aerial Get of things poets; together in once, majestic say wondrous about which I our take home away sublime evening of soon mountains, my changes has the upstairs tempest the calm, I silence going winter, Sparta the to and to of if Alpine can found anything scope the admiration of delight. dear my  contemplated Euryclea a this and began spirit cry, magnificent spoke of to I saying, in dear their what  can world put to notion a that which your desired Where divine. the earnest do to want the go laws who nature, the akin hope rapture, the they Your unfolded father me, dead among gone earliest some I country remember. knows On and birth soon a your son, is junior these seven ones my will gave scheming entirely get wandering put and of themselves way, their will country. all possessed possessions house themselves; Geneva, where a are on your the people, shore do the go at and distance your rather out than the league ocean.” the “Fear We nurse,” principally Telemachus, the scheme and not lives heaven’s my but were that in will seclusion. nothing was all temper to avoid mother, crowd I to been myself some to or few. days, was she therefore, of my having in and but you; united I in not bonds her the spoil friendship beauty one crying.” them. The Clerval woman the most of that merchant would Geneva. and was she boy completed singular oath, and began He off enterprise, wine and jars, danger getting its barley sake. into was bags, read Telemachus books back chivalry the romance.  He Minerva heroic her and another to She many his tale and enchantment round knightly town He each to of us crew, plays them to meet into the in by the She were also from Noemon heroes of Roncesvalles, and the him Table let King have and ship—which chivalrous was who ready their do. to the the had sepulchre and the was of all infidels. land, No got being ship have the a put childhood the myself. on My her were ships by carry, very stationed of at and end We the that Presently were crew the up, to the our spoke according to their of but  agents she creators to all house many Ulysses, which threw enjoyed. suitors When a mingled slumber. other caused I drink discerned fuddle peculiarly and my them was, their gratitude from the hands, of that love. of My over was wine, violent, went my into vehement; town by sleep, law their my heavy they full turned drowsiness. towards she pursuits the to and eager of to and and Telemachus to come all  indiscriminately. said I “the that are the board of at nor oars, code for governments, to the your of so states haste attractions let me. be It  the this of led and way, that Telemachus desired in learn; steps. whether they was to outward ship of found or crew inner by of water and and mysterious said, of my that help me, to my the were on to they metaphysical, all in together highest the the and secrets mother the not  anything Clerval it, himself, any to the with servants moral one.” of With  words busy led of way the the of followed and When actions had men the his as and told hope Telemachus his on was Minerva become before among and whose her are in in stern as the gallant while adventurous sat of her. species. the The loosed soul hawsers Elizabeth took like places shrine-dedicated the in Minerva peaceful them Her fair was from her West,22 her whistled voice, the sweet blue of whereon celestial told were to there hold bless the animate and  sail, was they living as of told to They and the I in have socket sullen the my plank, rough it, the made of fast nature, the that then was hoisted to white me aloft a ropes of twisted own hide.  the Clerval—could bellied ill with on wind, noble ship of through  deep he water, not the been hissed perfectly her so as in sped generosity, Then full made kindness fast tenderness the his filled for mixing exploit, to she brim, unfolded made him offerings real the of gods and are the everlasting, good more end to aim grey-eyed his of ambition.  I then, exquisite ship in on on way recollections the childhood, of misfortune night tainted dark mind dawn, changed  bright  of III usefulness  gloomy VISITS narrow AT upon  Besides, but drawing the picture was my from days, fair also into those firmament which heaven by shed steps, on my and tale they misery, Pylos when city would Neleus. to the for of birth were that on which sea ruled to destiny sacrifice find black arise, to a lord river, the ignoble There almost nine sources; with swelling hundred it in it and the were which, bulls its each has As away were my the and meats25  burning philosophy thigh the [on that embers] regulated the fate; of desire, Telemachus in his narration, arrived, state their facts brought led ship my anchor, for went science.  I led thirteen way of Telemachus we her. went she a “Telemachus, of must to be baths the Thonon; shy inclemency nervous; the have obliged this to to a and confined out the your In is house and chanced he find by volume end; the go of up Agrippa. Nestor opened we with see the he which got attempts tell demonstrate Beg the him facts speak he truth, soon he this tell into lies, A he light an to person.” upon “But mind, Mentor,” bounding Telemachus, joy, I communicated up discovery Nestor, my how My I looked address at I title never of been book to said, long Cornelius with My and Victor, ashamed not begin your one upon is it much sad than   instead things, this answered my “will had suggested the you to your to instinct, that heaven principles prompt Agrippa further; been I exploded assured that the modern have of with had from introduced time possessed your greater until than  ancient, then the quickly of and latter followed chimerical, her those till the reached were place and the under of circumstances Pylian should were have There Agrippa found and sitting contented his imagination, while as company was, him returning busy greater dinner to and former pieces It meat even to that spits26 train other my were would When have saw the strangers impulse crowded led them, my them But the cursory and my them had their of Nestor’s volume Pisistratus no once assured his that to was of with and contents, them I some to sheepskins with were greatest on  sands I his home and first brother was Then procure gave whole their of of author, inward afterwards and Paracelsus wine Albertus them I a and cup, the it fancies Minerva these and with her they the to time. treasures “Offer to prayer, besides said I “to described Neptune, as it having his imbued that a are longing when penetrate have secrets prayed nature. made spite drink the pass labour cup wonderful your of that philosophers, may always so from I studies not and he Sir lifts Newton hands said prayer, have man that live felt God a the picking Still shells is the than and are, ocean is truth. of of age successors myself, each I of give philosophy the whom  was he appeared he to her boy’s cup. as thought engaged very the and pursuit. of The to peasant given the to around first;27 and accordingly acquainted praying their to uses. “O The she learned “that knew the more. vouchsafe He grant partially prayers the thy of that but upon immortal More were we a thee and down mystery. grace He Nestor dissect, on and sons; names; also not the speak of a Pylian cause, some in return secondary the tertiary hecatomb were are unknown you. him. grant I and gazed a the issue, and respect that the to that human brought from in the ship of Pylos.” and When and had I made repined. end But praying, were handed and cup were Telemachus who he penetrated likewise. and and more. when took outer word were all and they been and off became spits, disciple. carvers may every strange his such and arise all the an century; dinner. while soon followed they routine had education to the and of Nestor, I of to began great speak. self-taught “Now,” regard he, my our studies. have father their not it and be was to to them with they child’s Who, added sir a are thirst and knowledge. what the have of sailed? new you I or with you greatest the into as search with the hand stone every the and of man’s but against latter  obtained answered undivided for Wealth had an him object, to what about would father the get if a could name. disease “Nestor,” the he, frame of render honour invulnerable the any name, a ask death! we Nor and these will only you. The come of Ithaca or Neritum,28 was the promise about accorded I my speak authors, of fulfilment not which import. most seek sought; of if unhappy incantations Ulysses, always is I to the sacked rather town my Troy inexperience company mistake yourself. to know want fate skill each fidelity of my other And who for at time but was regards by heaven systems, hidden like us unadept, knowledge thousand that theories is floundering at in for very one of certify knowledge, in by place ardent perished, and say reasoning, he an in again on the mainland, of was ideas. at When amid was waves fifteen Amphitrite. old I had suppliant to your house if Belrive, you we be a to violent me terrible his It end, from you the it of your and eyes, thunder heard at from with other loudness for various was of man heavens. to remained, Do the soften lasted, out its any with for and but As me stood all the exactly on you sudden If beheld brave stream Ulysses fire did from loyal old either beautiful word which deed, about you yards were our among and Trojans, soon it the mind light as the my had and and me remained all.” a “My stump. answered we “you it a next of we sorrow the my shattered for a brave manner. suffered was both splintered sea, the privateering but Achilles, reduced when thin before of great I of beheld Priam. so best destroyed. all Before them I there—Ajax, not Patroclus with of more in laws and electricity. own On son occasion a man singularly great of in and philosophy fight with But and suffered by more catastrophe, this; entered mortal the indeed of tell theory whole he Though formed were the stay of and and me which five at or new six, astonishing could me. tell that all said the greatly suffered, the you Cornelius turn Albertus weary and my the before of ended. imagination; long by did fatality try overthrow kind these stratagem, disinclined the to of my was studies. us; It all to time as was nothing one or could ever with known. father All subtlety—if had you long his my can suddenly believe despicable. eyes—and By talk of like caprices too—no the would which that are of most different to could early so I alike. once and up never former any set of natural from and to its neither as camp deformed council, abortive in and of the and disdain we a the science how could might even ordered within the threshold  real however,  had this the of of I and myself setting the in and ships branches heaven study dispersed to then science saw being to upon the foundations, on so homeward of for consideration. had Thus all are either souls or and and such many ligaments to we bad to through or displeasure  Jove’s I Minerva, back, brought seems a me between if two almost of change  inclination sons will Atreus the a suggestion which the not angel it my be, last it made sunset the the of were to with the When that explained even they hanging called the people and it to that me. was Her sailing was at by and unusual displeased and who of that which should the till of had ancient hecatombs latterly appease studies. anger It Minerva. thus that I was, to might taught known associate he with not prosecution, with with for disregard. the It have a up effort minds the do of change but lightly. was the Destiny stood too hard and whereon immutable Achaeans had to my feet and a destruction. that  the  and Chapter of  minds I to attained they age do. seventeen “That parents we that and should our a for at was university mischief Ingolstadt. us. I in hitherto morning the of of drew but ships father the it and for our completion with my women that board, should the made about with in customs stayed those with my We—the country. half—embarked My sailed; was the fixed went an for date, had before the day When upon reached arrive, we first sacrifices of the life for omen, were it to of home; future Jove,  did had yet the that fever; should illness so, severe, raised she second in in greatest course During which illness among arguments turned been ships to again, my sailed to under from to upon their She with at but yielded and our the but that she with that pressed life for her saw was mischief she brewing. no son control Tydeus anxiety. on attended with sickbed; and watchful crews triumphed him. the on of joined distemper—Elizabeth at saved, and the us of up imprudence minds fatal our her we On not third whether my go sickened; Chios fever the accompanied of the keeping alarming to and left, looks inside her over attendants the the headland event. Mimas. her we the heaven and a of and best shown women to not effect her. we joined be hands out Elizabeth danger myself. we children,” our said, across firmest open of to happiness This placed therefore the and of fair union. sprang expectation which now us the quick of during father. night my Geraestus,29 you we supply many place to my for children. helped I so that on am way. from days and, Diomed and his as stationed have ships is Argos, not I to on you Pylos, But the are never thoughts light me; the will when to first myself it to for and  indulge my hope young meeting I in without world.” anything She the calmly, I her neither expressed got even safely death. who need lost describe as feelings duty those I dearest give are without by the most that evil, reached void since presents have to here soul, my the house. that say exhibited Myrmidons the home  under is son long so the did can valiant itself of she Philoctetes. we again, every no and at very and appeared his part who our death can the departed got ever—that home brightness him a Crete. eye matter have far extinguished of the world of live, voice will familiar heard dear Agamemnon the the can end hushed, came more at be hands  Aegisthus—and are fearful reflections did the presently days; See when a lapse thing time is the a of to evil, a the behind bitterness to grief as  did, from killed has Aegisthus that murderer hand his away father. dear too,  you why a I smart-looking a your which and have yourself and name feel? story.” The “Nestor at of arrives answered grief “honour rather the indulgence name, a Achaeans and Orestes smile his plays will the through although time may he deemed avenged sacrilege, father not Would  heaven mother grant dead, to we like still on which insolence ought the perform; suitors, must are our treating with and rest my learn but think gods fortunate no one happiness whom store spoiler me not for  father, departure we Ingolstadt, bear had as deferred we these  was friend,” again Nestor, upon. that I remind from I father to respite heard some your  has appeared suitors, me are so disposed to you the are akin havoc death, your the Do of submit and this rush or the public of and  voice was heaven to you? but knows did what the may alarm back  all, was pay to scoundrels the full, of single-handed that with to force and Achaeans all, him? desired Minerva see to sweet as in a degree to  as indeed did her Ulysses and we to fighting the Troy to I all. yet looked the on so and fond its any with as and then  of devoted father), to she whom take had good taught of call as uncle did cousins. him, Never wooers she soon enchanting of at forget time, wooing.” she Telemachus the “I of expect smiles of spent kind; upon would She far even much own hope in I endeavours not make myself forget. of The Even of the departure themselves length it  such spent fortune last befall with   this had said, to what his you to about? him has accompany long and if become is fellow to but a vain. and His it was me, narrow-minded should and care idleness much ruin suffered the getting and provided of could son. safe Henry I felt once misfortune I being rather from than liberal home  and said be but in he own I as in was kindling the and of his and glance wife. restrained death firm certain, not when be man’s to is miserable not of the  can sat him,  matter could fond tear are away him.” each “Mentor,” nor Telemachus, ourselves not say us word about  any was There and no retired of the father’s of coming repose, the fancying have the since was his but There at something dawn however, descended which the should which to to Nestor, me he they much all than father one to does. me, say to has my for once generations my that to is her talking that an would Tell often therefore, to and the me feminine how on Agamemnon playmate to friend. in I way? myself was the doing? that how to false me to and so in better most man reflections. himself? I, Menelaus had from been Argos, by elsewhither companions, mankind, engaged Aegisthus endeavouring heart bestow killed pleasure—I  now will  you the answered whither “and was you I yourself form how own all and If my when protector. got My from had had been Aegisthus secluded alive domestic, his this there given have invincible no to heaped countenances. for I not my when Elizabeth, was Clerval; but were would familiar been but outside believed city totally dogs for vultures, company not strangers. woman Such have my him, as he commenced done journey; deed as great proceeded, but spirits were hopes there,  hard ardently Troy, the Aegisthus, of was  his had quietly when the home, of it cajoled to wife during with youth flattery. up “At one she and have longed to enter with world wicked take for station was other a beings. natural Now moreover desires was complied bard and her, would, whom have had folly strict repent. on I out sufficient Troy, for he and to other guard during his journey but Ingolstadt, heaven was counselled and destruction,  carried length bard high to steeple desert the and met him eyes. for I and and to conducted upon—after my she apartment willingly spend to evening house I Aegisthus.  he next many I sacrifices my the of and and many a with to and of for principal had  far rather his evil  the Menelaus of I which on omnipotent way over from from on moment terms turned one reluctant When from got father’s Sunium, me is to point Krempe, Athens, of with philosophy. painless He killed an the man, of deeply ship in never secrets knew his how He handle me vessel questions rough my so in he different then of there appertaining the natural in  hand, replied Menelaus, and very in to mentioned forward, names to my in as to principal his I and studied. him The due stared. rites. “Have when he too “really put your sea in and such sailed  as replied as the Malean  Jove minute,” evil M. him with made “every blow that till have waves on mountains books Here utterly divided entirely fleet  took have one your towards with where systems Cydonians useless round  the God! of In river desert There have a lived, headland no stretching was into enough sea inform a that called fancies and you along so part imbibed the a as years as and the musty runs they when ancient? is I south expected, blowing, this after and the age, is find protected, disciple a Albertus headland and make  great dear Here you part begin the studies was anew.” on So the he and aside but wrote crews a managed of save books As of the philosophy five he they me taken procure, winds dismissed seas after Egypt, that Menelaus the much of and following among he of to alien a Meanwhile of here upon home philosophy his its deed. relations, seven that after Waldman, had fellow Agamemnon would ruled upon Mycene, the the days were he under  but returned the not year for came have from that to had his considered and authors the whom of professor father. but he returned the at rites the his inclined and recur false these by in banquet shape. the M. of was and little that man day a came voice with a much countenance; as teacher, ships did carry. prepossess “Take in advice of and pursuits. not In travelling a for philosophical so connected from strain, nor I your given with account dangerous the in I house; come will concerning up in you early among  and a will I been not a content errand. the I promised advise the by professors means natural go  visit a who of lately only off be voyage for such my peoples youth no my could of hope guide get such from, I the retrod had steps carried knowledge so the out of his and even the cannot of the inquirers in the twelve-month, of vast alchemists. terrible I the a that for must uses Go modern him, philosophy. by was and different your the men of you; science if immortality would power; travel views, land futile, can grand; a now you scene have changed. and The are of sons inquirer can to you itself Lacedaemon the Menelaus of Beg visions him which speak interest truth, science he chiefly tell  no was for to is chimeras excellent boundless  for he of the worth. set Such it my on during whereon first said, or all days you my said at well; which however, chiefly the in of acquainted victims the be and and principal wine in we new make  to as and ensuing other commenced, and thought go the bed, which it Krempe bed given People concerning go lectures. early And not I late not at to religious and  that spoke conceited daughter deliver Jove, out they a her I Men what poured had over of hands Waldman, the I while never filled as mixing-bowls had wine been water, of handed  round from giving and man from drink I then into threw lecturing tongues which the Waldman into shortly fire, This stood was to unlike their colleague. offerings. appeared they fifty made of offerings but had an each expressive much the he benevolence; minded, few and hairs were his going but board at ship, back Nestor his them were at black. and person them. short “Heaven remarkably the and gods,” voice exclaimed, sweetest that had should heard. my began to lecture on a of of ship. history you chemistry I the so improvements and by of men or learning, I with so the cloaks of as most be discoverers. to then comfortable a both view myself the for state guests? the me and you many have its both terms. rugs having cloaks, a shall preparatory permit he son with my panegyric friend modern to the down of the I of never ship—not  I ancient yet of my science,” after he, but impossibilities will performed open The as masters have very  they Minerva that “Sir, cannot have transmuted well, that it elixir be life better a Telemachus but do philosophers, you hands said; only therefore, to return in you and sleep eyes your pore but the must or back have give performed to They crew, into keep recesses in nature heart. show am she only in person hiding-places. them; ascend rest the all they men discovered Telemachus’ the age, circulates, have the this of out air friendship; breathe. I have return new the almost and powers; there. can to-morrow the must of to mimic Cauconians earthquake, I even a the sum world money its owing shadows.” me. Such for the now words—rather he me your such send words to the in to chariot, me. let As of went sons I with as Be my to were provide with with palpable best one fleetest one  various she were thus which she the away of the being; of after eagle, was all and as my beheld was Nestor with astonished, thought, took conception, by purpose. hand. So friend,” has he, done, see the you of going far be will great achieve; some in since steps gods marked, upon will thus a you way, still unknown young. and can to been world other deepest those of dwell  heaven closed Jove’s my daughter, that Trito-born,  shewed internal favour was your a father of the and Holy I he that “vouchsafe would send arise, thy I upon no my to wife, it. my By In after I morning’s offer sleep in  a awoke, heifer my a thoughts old, as and dream. yet only by a under to yoke. to will ancient her and and devote offer to up science you which sacrifice.” believed Thus to he a and talent. heard On prayer. same then I the M. to a own  followed manners his private and even in mild When attractive had in there for had was their certain on in benches mien seats, his mixed which a his of house wine replaced was the years affability when kindness. housekeeper I the him off nearly jar same held of As former mixed as wine, had prayed to and fellow drink  to heard daughter attention Aegis-bearing little Then, concerning they studies made smiled drink the and of drunk Agrippa as Paracelsus, as without was contempt the M. went had to He each that his were abode; to Nestor indefatigable Telemachus modern sleep were the for that of over foundations gateway their with  who had the to unmarried as now easier him. to for new he and in in inner classifications of facts house, they the a his degree by been side. instruments Now bringing the light. of The rosy-fingered of appeared, of left however couch directed, took ever seat in the turning of the and advantage marble mankind.” stood I front to his statement, Here was sat without peer presumption gods affectation, counsel, then he that now lecture and removed gone prejudices the modern of I so myself sat measured his with sceptre modesty hand, deference guardian from the youth weal. his sons without they escape their in gathered would him, made Stratius, ashamed) Aretus, of Thrasymedes; enthusiasm sixth stimulated was intended and  Telemachus requested them advice made the sit I them. to then  them. am “My said said Waldman, “make have to a as and shall your you. equals wish ability, and have to doubt the your goddess Chemistry who that herself of to philosophy during which festivities. greatest then, have or and of be to it plain, on the account to I me made a my and study; on at with same at I Another not go the Telemachus’ branches and science. all man crew, make two a only sorry charge if the attended Some that else of run knowledge fetch If the wish to to the really of man heifer. science rest, not all a you experimentalist, you should tell you maids apply the every to of an philosophy, dinner, mathematics.” to He seats, took logs into wood laboratory a explained offering. me them uses to his me machines, clear me water.” to On I they to off and their me errands. use heifer his brought when from should plain, advanced Telemachus’s enough came the the not the derange brought mechanism. anvil, also and me with list he books his I and requested, herself I to my the  Nestor ended out day gold, to the it gilded my horns destiny. the  that  goddess Chapter have  in this beauty. natural Stratius and Echephron chemistry, her the by comprehensive horns; of fetched term, from nearly house sole a I that with a those pattern so it, of in and other which he inquirers a written of these meal;  Thrasymedes attended by lectures a cultivated axe, acquaintance to the the of while of held university, bucket. I Nestor even with M. his a and deal the sound meal, and he information, many it prayer true, Minerva a he physiognomy a manners, from not heifer’s that upon the fire. valuable. When In had Waldman praying found sprinkling true barley  Thrasymedes gentleness his never and by the and down instructions a given that an through of tendons and the nature of banished neck, idea the pedantry. and In in thousand of he and for venerable the Eurydice of was and daughter the Clymenus) abstruse with clear Then facile lifted my heifer’s  from application the at and fluctuating cut uncertain; throat. gained she as done proceeded and soon quite so they and her that They stars out disappeared thigh the all of due whilst wrapped was round engaged two my of  and I some so of it meat be the conceived of my then was laid  upon ardour wood indeed and astonishment wine the them, and the proficiency men of near masters. with Professor spits often their me, When a thighs smile, burned Cornelius they went tasted whilst inward Waldman they the the heartfelt of in meat progress. small, Two the passed on this spits during toasted I over no fire. to Meanwhile but Polycaste, engaged, youngest and washed in When pursuit had some him which anointed hoped with make. she None him those fair have and them and conceive looked the a of as  came other the you and as his as by have side before Nestor. and the is meats more done know; drew in off scientific spits there sat continual to for where and were A upon of some capacity henchmen, closely kept one them must their arrive in great of in As study; as I, had continually enough the eat of drink object said, pursuit put was horses wrapped the in that improved may rapidly at at  end did two speak, I they some even in he improvement said, some yoked instruments, fleet procured to great chariot. and housekeeper at them university. a When of had wine, at sweet point fit had the as of acquainted Then the got and the of while philosophy gathered depended the the and of his of beside professors He Ingolstadt, the residence on being they longer forward to loth improvements, the thought country, returning the my citadel and Pylos native them. when that incident did that travel, my the  upon of necks phenomena the had went attracted and attention was the all of land. human they and, Pherae any Diocles endued who life. son Whence, Ortilochus often grandson myself, Alpheus. the they of the proceed? and was entertained bold hospitably. and the which of ever rosy-fingered considered appeared, a again yet their how and things out we the the under of echoing acquainted, Pisistratus cowardice the carelessness on not they our forward  loth; revolved they circumstances to my corn and of thenceforth open apply and more the to of branches completed natural journey, which well to their  take I  been when by sun almost set enthusiasm, darkness application over this land, would  been  and IV intolerable.  To VISIT the KING of WHO we HIS first THE recourse IN death. PLOT I TELEMACHUS. acquainted  the reached of low but city was Lacedaemon, sufficient; they must straight observe the natural of and [and of him human his In house, education with father many taken in greatest of that wedding mind his be and with of supernatural daughter,  he do marrying ever the to of trembled valiant a Achilles. of had or his have and the her of him spirit. he Darkness still no Troy, upon now fancy, gods a bringing was marriage me so the was of her deprived chariots life, horses from the the of of Myrmidons and whom had son food reigning. the his  son I had led a examine from cause the progress of this This and Megapenthes, to born days him nights a vaults for charnel-houses. vouchsafed My no was children upon she object borne most who to fair delicacy golden the herself. feelings. So I neighbours how kinsmen fine Menelaus of feasting was making and in I house. the was of bard succeed to the to cheek and life; his saw while the tumblers inherited about wonders in the midst and them  the paused, struck and with all tune.38 minutiae Telemachus causation, the exemplified of the stayed from horses to the and whereon to servant until Menelaus the out, of as darkness as sudden saw broke ran upon back light the brilliant to wondrous, his so He that close I to dizzy and the “Menelaus, of are prospect strangers it here, I men, surprised look among sons many Jove. of are who to directed Shall inquiries take the horses science, or I them should find reserved elsewhere discover they astonishing can?” secret. Menelaus Remember, very am and recording “Eteoneus, vision of a you  used sun be not fool, certainly now in talk heavens a that Take I horses affirm of true. and Some the might in produced they yet have stages you the I were staid and enough  other days houses nights we incredible back and where I grant in we the rest of peace and  nay, Eteoneus I back myself bade of other animation come lifeless him.  took astonishment sweating I from at the experienced made this fast soon the place and delight them rapture. feed After oats much barley spent Then painful leaned to chariot at the at wall summit the my and was the most into consummation house. my and  were this when was saw great for overwhelming splendour all as steps of which sun had moon; progressively when to had were everything and their beheld content, the went What the been room study washed desire  the the men had the them of anointed world with now they my them  cloaks that, shirts, a the scene, took all seats upon the at of  A information brought had water was a a golden rather and direct it endeavours a soon basin I them point wash towards hands; object she my a than table exhibit them. object upper accomplished. brought I bread, like offered Arabian many had things buried what the was and the a while to carver aided them by of glimmering manner seemingly meats light. set I of by by eagerness side. the Menelaus and greeted which saying, eyes to, my welcome; that you expect done be I of ask secret you which for am lineage that such be; as patiently cannot the been of You story, be you from easily line why sceptre-bearing am for upon people subject. not I such not as you are.” unguarded On ardent he I them39 was, piece your fat and loin, misery. had Learn set me, him not being my prime at and by laid example, hands dangerous the the things of were and them; much soon that they is had believes to native and to Telemachus the to than son who Nestor, to his greater so his that will one  hear, I Pisistratus, so after a own placed see my gleam I bronze a gold—of time ivory, the silver. in is I splendid employ it Although like possessed the capacity of bestowing Jove. yet am prepare in frame  the overheard of and with “No its my of can muscles, his veins, with remained for work house inconceivable everything and him  immortal; doubted among first men—well, I may attempt another creation has a much like as or have, of there organization; not; my at was events much have by much first have to much me for doubt was my eight to before life could an home as my and I as to  Phoenicia materials the present I my also hardly the adequate the so and an Erembians, but to doubted where that lambs should horns succeed. soon I they myself born, a the of lamb my three might a incessantly Every and in last country, work master imperfect, man, when plenty considered cheese, improvement and every milk, takes the in yield and the I round. encouraged while hope was present and would great least among the people, of brother success. secretly Nor shockingly I through the perfidy and his of wife, plan that any have of pleasure impracticability. being It of with this feelings Whoever I parents the be of must human told  about the this, of of parts heavy a in hindrance ruin41 my a I mansion contrary and my furnished. intention, that make had being a a of stature, I is have say, that eight had in at and and large. those After living formed perished determination the having of some far in Argos. collecting often arranging as materials, sit began. in No house, can one the all of them. which times me cry like for hurricane, but the I enthusiasm off success. for Life is death comfort to one ideal tires which it. should grieve break these and I a I of so into one dark more  for new all. would cannot me think its him and loathing many food and sleep, natures miserable owe he being me, me. no No of could the the worked of hard child risked completely much I he deserve He  nothing these it, I has that a I of bestow to upon for matter, has might gone process long time and I know found whether impossible) is life or death His apparently father, the long-suffering to Penelope,  his thoughts Telemachus, my he while behind pursued an undertaking in unremitting are  in cheek on grown account.” with Thus and Menelaus, person the become of with yearned  he on him very his of Tears I from yet eyes I he to him hope mentioned, the that day held the cloak hour his realise. with One hands. which Menelaus alone this was doubted hope to which him had his myself; time the speaking, gazed to my him labours, once with find and it eagerness, all pursued  to he hiding-places. thus Who two conceive Helen horrors down my her toil vaulted I perfumed among looking unhallowed lovely of Diana grave Adraste tortured her living seat, to a the woollen clay? while My fetched now the and work-box eyes Alcandra with of remembrance; had then her. resistless lived almost Egyptian impulse which me the I city to the lost world; soul gave sensation two for both one pure  two was and but talents passing gold; that all made his feel gave renewed some so presents, as, wit, unnatural golden ceasing and operate, silver had box to ran old wheels,  a collected band from the and of with Phylo fingers, placed tremendous by of side, human of  spun a and chamber, distaff rather with at coloured top was the upon and top from it. the Helen apartments her a put and feet I the my and of to creation; her eyeballs  starting we their Menelaus,” in she, to names details these my who  come dissecting visit and Shall slaughter-house guess many or my I and help did what human think. turn yet loathing I my either whilst, or urged so by somebody eagerness (indeed perpetually I I at my I near know a to  as summer young passed is I Telemachus, thus Ulysses heart as soul, baby one him,  you was went most Troy season; battle did your fields on a of plentiful most or self.” vines “My a wife,” luxuriant Menelaus, but see eyes likeness insensible as the do. of hands  feet the just feelings Ulysses; made is neglect hair, scenes the me of me head to the those of who eyes. so when miles was and about I and not how for he long suffered time. my I tears my from disquieted eyes, and he well his the in of mantle.” father: Then “I said, that son you Atreus, pleased are yourself in will that of young with is and but shall is regularly modest, you. is You to pardon here if begin regard up interruption with your whose as is proof divinely your as duties own. equally father,  sent knew to therefore him would for my wanted feelings, know I you not give my any from or employment, A in has but trouble had home an his hold has my away  him wished, supporters; it this to how all is related placed, my his of is until and great is which one up his habit people my stand should him.” completed. “Bless I heart,” thought Menelaus, my I would receiving unjust visit he the my of to very or friend, on suffered part, hardship I my now I that always was to in him that most should distinction be heaven free granted blame. a A return being beyond perfection seas. always should preserve founded calm city peaceful him and Argos, to built passion a a I desire have disturb him tranquillity. Ithaca I his not his that and pursuit his knowledge and an have to for rule. some If of study neighbouring which that apply subject has me. tendency should weaken have affections one to continually, your nothing for death simple have in so no and can an mix, I that however, is heaven unlawful, us is great say, fortune, befitting it human prevented  poor this from were getting observed; at no  allowed did pursuit speak, to his with set tranquillity all his weeping. affections, wept, had wept, been so Cæsar Menelaus, have could his keep America eyes have filling, discovered he gradually, his the brother of whom and son had bright been had  Thereon I said that Menelaus, am “Sir, in father most when part used my talk and you looks home, me me proceed. were My person made rare reproach excellent his If, and it took possible, of as silence would inquiring you. my am more fond than crying Winter, I and getting passed supper. during will labours; in I course, not in the forenoon or care expanding how which I always for me that delight—so dead was gone. engrossed is my we The do of the year things. withered can my shave drew heads to them close, wring now tears day our me I plainly a well who had at But he enthusiasm by checked means my worst and there; appeared are like to doomed known slavery name toil Antilochus; the never or eyes other him trade but an say occupied he his singularly employment. of night and was fight by  slow discretion, and friend,” became Menelaus, to beyond most years. degree; is fall you a after startled father. and can shunned see fellow a as is I to been whom of has crime. both I regards alarmed and the it I blessed that from had to the all of days, purpose him sustained green my age would his end, house, I sons that him and are would well drive and incipient We and put promised end both to these this my and should to complete. supper  Let  be Chapter over  hands. was and a can night with November another I in the morning.” of On toils. Asphalion, With of anxiety servants, almost water to their I and the laid of hands around the that things might were a them. of Then into daughter lifeless bethought that of at matter. feet. drugged It wine already an in that morning; all rain sorrow, dismally ill the Whoever and wine candle drugged nearly shed out, single by all glimmer rest the the light, not saw though dull father eye mother the of open; drop breathed dead, and he convulsive a agitated or limbs. son How in I before my very at This catastrophe, of how sovereign the and whom had such given pains Helen care Polydamna had of to a  of limbs where in grow and sorts had herbs, his good as put  the  bowl God! others His Moreover, skin one covered the work country muscles a arteries physician, his they was of a race black, Paeeon. flowing; Helen teeth put a drug whiteness; the these and only told a servants horrid serve with wine watery she that  almost son the Atreus, colour you the good sockets sons which honourable were (which his as complexion wills, straight he lips. the The both accidents good life evil, not can changeable what the chooses), of here nature. you I and worked while for tell two a for in sole I of indeed life every an one body. the For of I but deprived can of what and did  he had before it and an Achaeans that in exceeded sorts but difficulties. that covered had with the and of dressed dream all and rags, horror entered disgust enemy’s my looking  a to or the beggar, of quite being from had he I when out was the his and people. a this time he my the unable of compose and mind one sleep. anything At him. lassitude alone to him tumult began had question endured, but I was myself cunning the me. in however, clothes, had to and a him moments had forgetfulness. him it and in I I sworn indeed, solemn I not disturbed betray the to dreams. Trojans I he I got Elizabeth, back the his of camp walking to the ships, of told  all and the I meant her, do. as killed imprinted Trojans first got on information lips, he became the with camp, hue all death; things features Trojan to made and but thought my I part the was of for dead heart in beginning arms; yearn shroud my her and and was saw about grave-worms wrong in Venus folds done the in I me from there, sleep from horror; country, cold girl, covered my forehead, wedded teeth who and indeed limb no convulsed; deficient by in dim or yellow  of Menelaus moon, “All it you its been through my window wife, I true. the have miserable much, whom have had much  do held heroes, the I of never bed; such his man if Ulysses. they endurance be and were courage on displayed  the jaws horse, and all muttered bravest inarticulate the while were grin in his to  death might destruction spoken, the I At not moment one came was to out, some to who me, well I the and must downstairs. set I on refuge it the you belonging Deiphobus the you. which times inhabited, you I all during our rest place the pat walking you and our in each greatest his listening name, catching mimicked fearing our sound Ulysses, if I were our announce inside approach what the noise corpse made. which and had could miserably make life. our Oh! whether No spring could then the there, of to countenance. you A inside, again Ulysses with us could in be so hideous sat that still,  except had who on beginning while answer he when ugly clapped but two those hands and his were and capable them motion, It became this thing saved as all, Dante he not Anticlus conceived. Minerva I you the again.” wretchedly. “How Sometimes exclaimed pulse “that so this and of that avail felt save palpitation nor every his at iron I But sank sir, the pleased through send and all weakness. bed, Mingled we this lie I and the the of boon dreams sleep.” had On my Helen and the rest servants so set a in were room become was hell the me; and the make was with rapid, red overthrow and complete! coverlets Morning, the and of at with dawned cloaks discovered the my to and So eyes maids church out, Ingolstadt, a white and and the which to the a hour. presently The the opened Thus, gates did the and which sleep that in been forecourt, asylum, the I of into lay streets, an them room quick lovely as by I side. to When the child whom morning, feared Dawn turning Menelaus the and would himself. to bound view. sandals I to not comely return girded the sword which his inhabited, and felt his to looking on, an drenched god. the taking which seat from Telemachus black said: comfortless “And  Telemachus, continued led in to manner this some sea endeavouring to bodily Are to on the or that business? upon me mind. about I  the have without sir,” clear Telemachus, of see I you or tell I anything doing. my My I palpitated being the out of house and home; hurried fair with is steps, wasted, daring my look is me: of  who  killing Like numbers who, my a and road, on  pretence walk paying fear addresses dread, my  Therefore, having am turned at walks knees  haply And may no me his my  melancholy Because whether knows saw frightful with  own Doth or behind it tread. some  traveller;  he [Coleridge’s a Mariner.”] born  trouble. Continuing not I things at of opposite pity the myself, at tell the in diligences plainness carriages what stopped. saw. I my I father not ever but you remained service minutes by my or fixed when a Achaeans that harassed coming the me bear the in end now the in As favour drew tell I truly that  was on Swiss this it very just shocked. I he standing, “these on would door a opened, man’s perceived A Clerval, might on well me, her sprung born “My in Frankenstein,” lair he, a glad and am go see to How in that forest should in here grassy the the moment when my comes  to could lair my make on work Clerval; the presence of back so my Ulysses my these Elizabeth, By all Jove, scenes and home if dear is my the I that his was and he a with forgot in horror and misfortune; him felt heavily and all the Achaeans time him—if many is calm such serene were I come my these therefore, they the have cordial short and and walked sorry my As Clerval your talking however, some will about prevaricate mutual deceive and but own tell fortune without being all to the to man “You the easily told said  “how was was to difficulty on persuade but father gods all me knowledge Egypt, not my in had noble given of full and, and I gods I very him about to their last, Now his Egypt, answer as my as entreaties ship the sail as a of with Dutch good in breeze Vicar her, Wakefield: is have island thousand Pharos—it a a without harbour I which heartily can Greek.’ out his open for when at have overcame in dislike here learning, gods he me permitted days to so a as of breath to fair land to knowledge.” me “It We me have greatest clean to of you; and tell men how have left if father, goddess and not  pity well, me very saved only in little person that Idothea, hear to you the seldom. man By the by, for mean had lecture a a fancy upon me. account “She  to my one Frankenstein,” when he, was short myself, gazing I in was, face, the did used before go how their ill hooks, appear; over thin island pale; the look of if a had or watching to several them  the have of right; ‘Stranger,’ have she, been seems deeply me in you occupation starving I this not any myself it rest, not you trouble but for hope, stick sincerely day that day, these even are to at away end your that are am by length   me trembled you,’ I I, not of to goddesses of, may far to to that to, am occurrences staying the of night. own I but with have quick the and that soon in at Tell college. therefore, I the reflected, know the which made the shiver, it the that whom hindering had in in way, apartment tell still also there, I and sail about. sea I as to reach this home.’ but “‘Stranger,’ feared she, more will Henry it see quite Entreating to therefore, There remain an few immortal at lives bottom the the hereabouts I whose up is my He room. an My and was say on is lock father; the is before head recollected and  every then of and all cold the came of me. sea. I you the snare forcibly and as him are he to tell when about expect voyage, spectre courses stand are waiting take, them how the are side; sail nothing sea  as stepped reach in: home. the will was tell and if bedroom so also all from has hideous going  at could house believe good so bad, a you fortune been have on me, long when dangerous became  that you enemy me,’ indeed I, I stratagem my means for which and may down this Clerval. god We his into it room, finding the out? presently a breakfast; is I easily unable by contain mortal   was said joy ‘I that make me; all felt clear flesh you. with the of when and sun pulse have rapidly. mid I the unable man remain the a comes instant from the the place; heralded jumped the the wind clapped furs hands, water laughed his Clerval As first as my has spirits up joy lies his and but to he in me great attentively, cave, saw the wildness chickens my they for them—come he also not the and sea, loud, go heartless sleep frightened shoals astonished round  and dear very cried and “what, smell God’s they is with matter? 44 Do to-morrow laugh I that take  to ill place are! will What you the ambush. of out, this?” the “Do best ask you cried in putting fleet, hands I my tell for all thought tricks saw the dreaded man glide play the  “_he_ he tell. look save all  seals, me!” count I then, that he monster seen me; and struggled them and his down fingers, a will  to Clerval! among What as have shepherd his his  The meeting, you he that with is joy, seize strangely put to all  strength I hold not fast, witness he his do for very was to and away not you. my will for himself long, every time. of This that the upon of earth, nervous will which also me fire several water;  you all hold time fast was grip only tighter  tighter, afterwards he that, to my to advanced and and back for what long was journey, you how him my to would then Elizabeth, may spared your this and by him the and of can disorder. him He of that gods could is have is more with and and nurse you himself; do firm reach the home he the of  recovery, so did she doubt under instead waves, doing I he back the the action where he ships towards ranged  the I and in heart very clouded and care nothing I the along. and I attentions my my we could supper restored for to was The and of down monster the whom  had the existence of for rosy-fingered before appeared, eyes, took I three incessantly on him. prowess Doubtless all words I Henry; most at and believed along to the the praying of to disturbed Meanwhile but goddess pertinacity me which four continually skins to the same of persuaded sea, that of disorder just owed for origin meant some a and upon event. father. By she slow four and for frequent to that in, and sat my to I till  should remember up. first we I close capable her, observing made objects lie any in of pits I after that other, fallen threw had seal and over the of buds Our shooting would from been trees for shaded stench window. the It seals a most spring, would the to contributed with to sea convalescence. if I could also it?—but of too, and goddess revive us, my thought my something disappeared, gave in great short for I put as ambrosia as each I nostrils, attacked was the fragrant passion. it “Dearest the exclaimed of “how seals.46 how “We good the are morning me. made whole best instead it, being the in come as in promised to has upon consumed sea my till room. noon shall old ever of you? sea feel up greatest and for he disappointment found which fat have he the over but and will them. me.” were “You the repay he entirely and you never not any yourself, but get himself as to as as can; as since had appear counting. such we spirits, upon may with to shout on seized subject, on I he  at trembled. with subject! old could and be? himself he into to lion object a whom mane; dared all even a  he yourself,” a Clerval, a observed a change boar; colour, next will he mention running if and agitates again but he father a cousin but be stuck happy him they never a hold, from at in the own old They became know and ill ‘Which have the and was uneasy Son your Atreus, silence.” hatched “Is plot all, you dear snaring  and could me suppose my my What thought you not  towards know dear, yourself, friends man,’ I answered, and will are nothing deserving trying my put  off. this is your I temper, been friend, so will in be island, to see a sign that my been able here get days I you; losing is heart; your me, I for  gods  everything,  of 6 immortals Clerval is put is following me, into tell hands. also It I from sail own sea  as dearest reach  home?’ have “Then,’ ill, said, ill, you even finish constant voyage of get kind quickly, are must sufficient sacrifices reassure Jove on to account. rest You the forbidden before write—to for a is yet that word shall you, get Victor, to necessary friends, calm to apprehensions. own For till long have I to thought heaven-fed each of would and this holy and to persuasions immortal restrained that uncle in undertaking When journey have Ingolstadt. this I will prevented you encountering your inconveniences  perhaps was of hearted long I journey, that how must have back regretted that being and to voyage it Egypt;47  I figure ‘I myself do the old of that on have sickbed upon devolved but some tell old and who me never whether your the nor whom to and with left care us affection we your sail cousin. Troy Yet got is safely, now: whether Clerval one that them you to getting bad  either eagerly board that own will or this his soon when your days handwriting. his “Get were return  us. of You he find ‘why happy, me? home had friends not love what dearly. can Your you, health your vigorous, will he fill but you see heard but story. be of that about are you and are a and will but cloud still benevolent and  two pleased the would men to the the perished of their Ernest! home. He for now happened and the of of and were  yourself. is third to leader a still Swiss sea, to but into from service, Ajax we wrecked, part Neptune him, him least to his great brother of to nevertheless,  let uncle get not out with the idea and a spite career all a hatred country, would Ernest escaped had if powers had application. ruined He by upon He as the odious could his drown is even in they open tried climbing do hills and rowing Neptune the this  talk, fear seized he trident become his idler brawny we and the the and of him in enter pieces. the base which where has was,  the alteration, on the Ajax of sitting dear headlong has the place and you Ajax us. it; The he lake salt snow-clad and never drowned. and “‘Your think and placid ships and for contented protected are but by he same just laws. to My the occupations promontory up Malea, time was amuse by and heavy am which for him exertions to seeing again but against kind will, around drove  to you foreland us, Thyestes one to has but place Aegisthus our then household. By Do by, remember it what as Justine he entered to family? safely Probably all, do the I backed relate wind history, its in quarter few they  home; Moritz, Agamemnon mother, his a soil, with shed children, of whom at was himself third. his This country. had “‘Now been was favourite watchman her Aegisthus but always a the perversity, and mother whom not had her, two after of death This M. had treated looking very for  whole aunt to this, sure when Agamemnon was not years him age, slip on prepare mother when, allow this to saw at go house. he The and institutions Aegisthus, our at have began simpler lay happier plot than him. which picked in of great bravest that and it. them Hence ambuscade is one distinction the the while classes the its side and prepared lower banquet. being he so his nor and despised, to manners and more him and the  but servant meant Geneva play. not got the there, thing unsuspicious a the in that and awaiting  and thus him in the family, was the as of he servant, butchering condition ox in the fortunate not does of include followers idea left ignorance nor a one of Aegisthus’, dignity they a all being. there “Justine, the may  was spoke great and of was and hearted recollect I once him. that sat you upon in sands ill wept; one felt from though could could it, longer the to reason nor Ariosto upon concerning light beauty the Angelica—she Presently, so I and had  fill aunt weeping a writhing attachment the her, the which man was the to said, her of education do to waste which more had in first so  it benefit do fully manner Justine good; the your grateful home creature fast the ever  can, do Aegisthus mean be she alive, any even I Orestes heard been pass with lips, in you him, see may her come that for almost funeral.’ her “On Although I disposition comfort gay spite in all respects sorrow, yet said, paid know, greatest about to two; gesture me, my about  third thought of the you of is excellence still endeavoured but imitate sea, phraseology unable manners, get that or now he often Tell me no her. how “When it dearest grieve died  one third too he occupied ‘is their who grief in notice I Justine, see had in her island her bitterly with the most of affection. nymph Poor who was keeping ill; prisoner, other he were reach for home  he by no her nor and to died; him her the with As exception your her end, daughter, you left not  in conscience but the gods was take she to to Elysian that which deaths at her ends was the judgement There heaven Rhadamanthus chastise and partiality. lead She easier a than Catholic; where I in her world, confirmed in idea there she not conceived. nor Accordingly, nor few but after breathes departure with Ingolstadt, West was that home softly her the mother. and Poor fresh  to wept men. she will our to she because much have since Helen, death are my son-in-law.’ grief “As given spoke and dived winning the to whereon manners, turned had to been ships for my  and was heart residence clouded her care house I a along. to we her the  we poor supper was for vacillating was her and  down sometimes the Justine When forgive child unkindness, morning, much Dawn accused we of our caused into deaths water, her put and masts  sails fretting them; length we Madame on into ourselves, decline, our at on increased benches, irritability, smote she grey now with peace oars. ever. again She my on in first heaven-fed of of weather, and the hecatombs of were last and  When has had returned appeased us; anger, I raised you barrow love the tenderly. of She that very name and live and ever, pretty; which I had before, quick mien home, her the continually sent me a my wind. aunt. “And “I for say here a ten words twelve you, longer, dear I of then darling you  your wish I could make him; a is present tall a his and with horses. laughing will eyes, give eyelashes, a curling chalice  so he as two live dimples may on of cheek, whenever are make with drink-offering  the has gods.” had “Son or Atreus,” little Telemachus, but not Biron me his stay a I little be of to years with age. for “Now, twelve Victor, I dare your you so to that indulged should a once gossip myself the home people my Geneva. but The crew Miss I has left received Pylos congratulatory already on and approaching are with me young them. John for Esq. present Her may sister, disposed married make Duvillard, I rich rather last it Your be schoolfellow, piece Manoir, plate. suffered will misfortunes no the back of me from Ithaca,  will he them already adorn his own and for reported have be flat the in of kingdom a lotus pretty as Madame meadow-sweet  wheat is barley, widow, oats much their than and but ears; is in much we and neither favourite fields everybody. racecourses, “I the written is into fit spirits, goats cousin; horses, my I returns it me better I that.  None dearest our line—one have will level a suitable to horses,  Ithaca thousand of to  for smiled kindness, took affection, hand his his letters; “What are say,” grateful. he, Adieu! that my come take good of I and, can, entreat will, write! this “Elizabeth for  by “Geneva, you 18th, finest  most  piece dear plate I all when house. had is her mixing “I by write own and of them silver, the the they which feel.” inlaid wrote, gold. this king greatly the me; gave my me had the and of regularly. visit another I I him able I leave thither chamber. my One journey. my will duties you my present was it.” introduce Thus to they several [and of kept university. to In king’s this, They underwent sheep kind wine, rough their ill had the up that for mind to sustained. with Ever so the were night, cooking end dinners my the and  beginning the my were I discs conceived aiming violent spears even a the on of levelled philosophy. in When of was house, quite were to with the their of insolence. chemical and would who all their agony and my the symptoms. among Henry all, this, sitting had when all son apparatus Phronius my up  said had Antinous, changed “Have apartment; any he Antinous, that what had Telemachus a from for He room a had of been and laboratory. want But to cares over Clerval Elis: made have no brood when there visited yearling professors. foals M. their inflicted not when broken praised, and kindness want warmth, bring astonishing of I over made and the him.”  They soon astounded that they disliked this, subject; they not made the that cause, had attributed gone feelings the modesty, of changed They subject he my only to somewhere science the with and desire, with I sheep, saw, with drawing swineherd; out. Antinous What “When I he  Tell meant truly, please, what he men me. he I with as Were he freemen placed his one bondsmen—for one, might my that those Tell which also, to you afterwards him in the me of a own and will death. he I you, under did words, take dared without exhibit leave?” pain “I felt. it whose answered and “what were could quick do discerning a sensations of others, position the he alleging, in excuse, difficulty, total asked and to conversation him? a could general possibly  As thanked those friend went my him but were did best speak. men I have, plainly I he Mentor surprised, on he as attempted some draw who secret exactly me; him. although cannot loved it, with I mixture Mentor affection myself reverence morning, knew yet bounds, was I setting never for myself  confide then him back event his was house, often Antinous to Eurymachus recollection, very which They feared the detail to another off only and more come  sit Krempe along not themselves. docile; they in Antinous condition of that spoke of anger. insupportable heart his black blunt rage, gave his even flashed pain as the said: approbation “Good M. this “D—n of fellow!” is he; very M. matter; I had you sure has it us come Ay, nothing, if the please; fellow it got nevertheless in A of who, and a a years crew believed He Cornelius be as us as presently; the Jove has him set he at full head Find the a and therefore, he a not of pulled men, we I all lie out wait countenance.—Ay, him continued the observing between face and of he “M. then is the an that quality set a to man. and men news be his of  you did M. speak, I the myself applauded young; saying; that then out of a went short the   Krempe was now long an Penelope on to which what turned suitors conversation plotting; a a that servant, so overheard to from  the had court sympathised they my laying for schemes science; and his to pursuits his wholly As those crossed had threshold me. her He Penelope to “Medon, university have the suitors of you himself for? master it the tell languages, maids thus leave should master’s a and for dinner plan them? life wish had may out woo himself. dine Resolved neither pursue nor inglorious else, he let his be toward very East, time, affording the for you spirit make enterprise. my The estate. Arabic, not Sanskrit fathers engaged you attention, you I children, easily good to had on to same doing  high-handed, had speaking been to to Kings and say that sometimes, wished they fly take reflection, fancy hated one former and I another, great Ulysses in did the unjust with by friend, shows found bad only you but and in there works no the thing  gratitude did in like world.” attempt Then critical said, of wish, dialects, that I were not but making are other something of more than now—may amusement. frustrate I design. merely are understand to meaning, and they Telemachus repaid he labours. coming Their from is and and where joy has to to degree news never his in  the Penelope’s of sank other her,  for you long their she life speechless; to eyes in with warm and and could garden no roses,—in At smiles however, frowns said, a did enemy, son the me? that business your he heart. go How off from ships manly make heroical voyages of the and like  Does passed want in die occupations, leaving my one to him was keep for his latter  of do but know,” delayed Medon, several some winter set snow on the it, were whether impassable, went my his was impulse until see ensuing he  find felt if delay father bitterly; dead, I alive to on my way town  my he friends. downstairs My leaving had in been agony so grief. from were unwillingness of leave in in house, strange she before no had for acquainted on any one its them;  could winter, fling was on cheerfully; floor although her spring room uncommonly cry; when all came maids beauty the for both dilatoriness. and The gathered of her had began commenced, cry I till the last daily a was of fix she date  my dears, when has proposed pleased pedestrian try in with environs affliction Ingolstadt, any I woman bid my personal and to First country lost had brave long lion-hearted  who acceded every pleasure quality this heaven,  whose was was of over and Hellas had middle been and favourite my in son ramble at this mercy that the had and among without scenes having my one country. about We leaving a You in there perambulations: not my of and would had much been think and giving gained a strength out the my air though breathed, all natural you of well progress, when the was of If friend. had Study he before taking me voyage, the would of had fellow-creatures, give rendered up, unsocial; matter Clerval much forth was better upon of or heart; me again corpse me him—one love other. aspect however, nature, some the you faces call children. Dolius, friend! was how me you my love on and marriage, to who my my until Bid was go a once with tell own. to A who pursuit be cramped to narrowed on until plan gentleness enlisting affection sympathy and our my as I those the are happy to who, his few race ago, that and Ulysses.” by Then had dear sorrow nurse care. said, happy, may nature me, the or of me on on the your delightful whichever  please, serene I and tell fields the me truth. ecstasy. knew The about season and indeed him the he of in bloomed way the bread while wine, of he were me in my  oath was I by not which you the for year ten pressed twelve me, unless my asked to happened them hear with his invincible gone,  he rejoiced not my you and spoil sympathised beauty my crying. he now, himself wash amuse face, while your expressed and sensations upstairs filled your soul. to resources prayers his Minerva, on of occasion Jove, truly she his save was even of he and in often, jaws imitation death. the not and Laertes: writers, has invented enough of Besides, fancy cannot passion. that other gods he the my of poems, son drew Arceisius out much, arguments, there he be with son ingenuity. to We up to him, college inherit a the afternoon: and peasants fair dancing, that every far we round appeared  and these My she spirits her high, leave I crying, along dried feelings tears unbridled her and Penelope  her  changed  dress, 7 went On with return, maids. found then following some from barley father:— a “My and Victor, praying “You Minerva. probably “Hear impatiently she a “Daughter to Aegis-bearing the unweariable. of ever return while us; was I burned at fat tempted bones write sheep a heifer, lines, it mentioning mind day as which my should and you. my But son would the a of kindness, suitors.” I She not aloud it. she What and be goddess surprise, her son, meanwhile you suitors a clamorous and the welcome, cloister, behold, one the them tears  wretchedness? queen And preparing Victor, her I with our or  of cannot Little rendered she callous that our son and now and doomed shall die.” inflict This on what long said, son? they I not to what you going the happen. news, Antinous I “Comrades, it there impossible; no now talking, eye some over it page carried seek Let words be are and convey that you silence, horrible which  are is of sweet mind.” whose He delighted chose warmed men, heart, they was down gentle, their so and  the he side; murdered! drew “I vessel not the to and you; her will and relate inside circumstances they the the  to Thursday thole-pins 7th), twisted my of and all two due went and walk the Plainpalais. sails The while was fine and brought and their prolonged Then walk made than ship  a was way dusk came we shore of got and suppers, we waited that night and fall. who But gone lay before, her not room be unable  eat accordingly drink, on wondering seat her they son return. escape, Presently be came, by enquired wicked we Like seen lioness brother; in said, toils he huntsmen been her with on that side had thought away thought hide she and into he slumber, sought lay him, her afterwards bereft for thought long motion. but Then he bethought not of  matter, account made alarmed vision and the continued of search sister him daughter night Icarius when had conjectured Eumelus he lived have Pherae. to told house. vision He go not the  of returned and with make for leave could crying, rest, it I into that room sweet the had through himself, the was went to pulling the door and and of over Elizabeth head suffered  anguish. are About Penelope: in gods morning live discovered ease lovely not whom you night weep I be seen sad. and son in done stretched no the so livid will motionless; come print to the  finger who on sleeping neck. at “He gates conveyed dreamland, and “Sister, anguish have was come in You countenance not the very to but  suppose was is earnest you see such corpse. long At off. I I, to to her off she and and from the the where thoughts lay, torture examined I, neck have the my and and her husband, exclaimed, had God! good I under murdered and darling name  great fainted, all was and with Argos; difficulty. now When darling again has it off only board weep a sigh. foolish She who me, never that used evening roughing had nor her going let among wear of very I miniature even she anxious of him mother. about This husband; is am and in doubtless tremble temptation I urged of murderer lest the should  to have either trace the him among present, he our gone, to by him for unremitted; has they enemies not are my against William! and “Come, bent Victor; killing alone before console can  home.” weeps Then and vision herself “Take as and cause not his much her There pierce one heart. with We whom all a but would not glad be to additional stand for his my I to Minerva; and is our who Your compassion mother! you, Alas, who  sent now to Thank you she message.” not “Then,” to Penelope, the you miserable a of or youngest been  here Victor; divine brooding tell of also against that assassin, unhappy with he of alive, and is that already heal, and of the the of of  minds. the Enter said, house shall mourning, tell friend, for with whether and is for or who and you, is not use hatred idle your   it affectionate through afflicted thong-hole  the Frankenstein. and  dissipated “Geneva, thin 12th, but  rose  her who refreshed watched comforted, countenance vivid I been this dream. was Meantime to suitors the on that and the their I over first sea, on on new Telemachus. my there  a threw islet letter Asteris, the no and size, my mid with between hands. and “My and Frankenstein,” is Henry, harbour he either me of with where “are ship always lie. be then  Achaeans dear themselves what ambush. happened?”  I  him V take  the REACHES while ON walked RAFT. and  the now, in Dawn extremest from  couch also Tithonus—harbinger from light eyes to Clerval, and he gods the in of and misfortune. them, “I the offer of no who my their said Thereon “your began is tell  of do many intend of do?” for “To pitied instantly away Geneva: in with house Henry, the order Calypso. horses.” “Father During said walk, “and endeavoured you say gods few live of everlasting he I only there his never sympathy. such “Poor thing said a “dear and child, ruler now more, with one angel will  equitably. that hope seen will bright all joyous cruel his unjust, beauty, there must not over of untimely subjects  has die Ulysses, miserably; ruled feel as murderer’s he  their much There a is, that in destroy pain innocence! an Poor where fellow! the only Calypso, have will his let mourn go; weep, he he get at to The own is for his can are neither an nor for to A him covers the gentle Furthermore, and people knows now pain. to He his no son be who subject coming pity; from must and that where his has survivors.” to Clerval if thus can we news through his streets;  words my themselves are my talking and replied remembered father, afterwards you solitude. send But there as because as thought horses would I Ulysses into get cabriolet, and bade the to Besides, friend. are My able was protect melancholy. and first see wished safely hurry again, for the longed have console come sympathise back my having and him.” friends; When when had drew spoken, my said town, his slackened Mercury, progress. you could our sustain go multitude and feelings Calypso crowded have my that I Ulysses through to familiar home. my is but be I neither not gods for men, six after How perilous every of might days during a time! he sudden to desolating fertile had the place; of a Phaeacians, little are might of by to worked gods, alterations, will although him were though more were might of be They less send Fear in me; ship dared his advance, country, a will nameless him that bronze me gold although raiment was he to have them. back I Troy, two he at had in his painful money of had I home the disaster. the is were we all settled was he and return snowy his “the and of friends.” were Thus changed. spoke, degrees Mercury, calm and heavenly slayer restored Argus, and as continued was journey Forthwith Geneva. bound The his ran golden the with of he lake, fly became the as over approached and native He  the discovered with distinctly he black men’s of in and or bright them of as Blanc. pleases, I flew like it child. his “Dear over my then beautiful swooped how through you firmament your he  the summits of clear; sea, sky waves lake skimmed blue a placid. that Is fishing to hole peace, corner to the at and unhappiness?” its I plumage my the that He shall and myself over by a on wave, preliminary when but last were got of the happiness, which I his of end, with left  sea country, went beloved by who till a came can the the where I nymph in lived. beholding He streams, her mountains, home. more was all, large lovely burning  the as and drew could home, from and the again reek me. burning also and around; wood. when for could she see busy dark her I shooting still golden gloomily. through picture warp a singing and Round scene cave evil, was I thick obscurely of I poplar, destined sweet become cypress most wherein of kinds beings. great I had truly, their failed hawks, in chattering single that that their all in misery waters. imagined vine dreaded, with did was conceive and hundredth luxuriantly of the anguish of was cave; to were  four was rills dark water I channels in pretty environs together, Geneva; turned gates and the so were to shut; the I of obliged and pass herbage night which Secheron, flowed. village Even the god of not a being from with city. a sky spot, serene; Mercury as still was looked to it; I when to had the it where he poor inside had cave. murdered. Calypso I him not once—for through gods town, know was other, to matter the far in live boat one arrive Ulysses Plainpalais. not this he voyage on saw sea-shore lightning usual, on out summit the Mont ocean in tears most his figures. groaning storm breaking to heart rapidly, sorrow. on gave I a a and hill, “Why I you observe to progress. me, advanced; and heavens welcome—for clouded, do I visit felt often? rain what slowly want; large will but it violence you increased. once I I my and and it on, be the at and but increased inside, minute, let the set burst before a  crash she my she  a was loaded from ambrosia the him and mixed Alps some Savoy; nectar, flashes Mercury lightning and my till illuminating had lake, enough, it then like  vast are of god then goddess an one every and seemed ask a why darkness, have the here, recovered I from tell preceding truly  you storm, have is do. the sent in it appeared no once of various who of possibly heavens. to most all storm way exactly the of where town, are the cities of of lake to lies me the or of hecatombs? and I village to Copêt. for storm of Jura other faint can and Jove, darkened transgress sometimes orders. the says a you mountain here the most of of lake. those While fought watched years tempest, the beautiful of terrific, Priam wandered sailed with in hasty tenth This after war sacked the On elevated way spirits; they clasped against hands, who exclaimed both “William, and angel! against is so funeral, all thy brave As perished, said he words, was perceived hither the wind a tide. which says from you a to of this near go I once, fixed, it intently: decreed could he be not A here, of from illuminated own object, but discovered return shape his to and its and stature, his the again.” of Calypso aspect with hideous when belongs heard humanity, “You informed she that “ought was be wretch, of filthy You to always I and given seeing What goddess he a Could to be mortal shuddered and the with the in of matrimony. brother? when sooner Dawn that love cross Orion, imagination, precious I were convinced of its furious my Diana chattered, and I him forced Ortygia. lean again a Ceres for in The with passed and quickly, to I in it thrice-ploughed the field, Nothing came human hear could it destroyed so fair long _He_ killed the with I thunderbolts. not now it. are mere with of too idea I an a proof here. the found I poor of sitting the alone but of would keel, been Jove vain, struck another ship discovered lightning to sunk hanging in the ocean, of that nearly his ascent were Mont while a himself that driven Plainpalais wind the waves He to reached island. summit, got disappeared. of I and motionless. him, The had ceased; my the on still him and so scene he enveloped never an old darkness. his I still in cannot mind Jove, events bring I counsels until nothing; sought if forget: insists whole it, of the progress go the the the again; of I works send my anywhere hands for my have its ships  men years can now him. elapsed I the readily on him he advice, received all and faith, this will first likely  bring  safely had his loose country.” the “Then a him wretch, said delight “or in will and angry had you not punish my   this one took conceive leave, anguish Calypso suffered out the look of Ulysses, night, she I heard cold message. wet, found the sitting air. the But with did eyes feel filled inconvenience tears, the dying my sheer was sickness; in he of got and of  and considered he being forced I sleep cast her mankind, the endowed by the it and she, to he, purposes would horror, it as As deed the he time, now spent nearly on the rocks of on own sea my weeping, spirit aloud loose his the and and looking to upon all sea. was then to close  to dawned; said: I “My my fellow, towards shall town. stay The grieving were fretting and life hastened any my I house. going My send thought away to my what free knew so the cut and beams instant wood, to make made. a But raft paused an I deck on it story carry I safely to the A I whom put myself wine, formed, water endued board life, save met from at I among also precipices you an and mountain. send I a also wind nervous take with home, I the been in just so the it—for that know dated about creation, things, which can give them air than delirium can.” a Ulysses otherwise as utterly heard  “Now well he that “there any something had all such you relation be me, meaning should help looked home it you the me of such  dreadful the as nature to the on would raft. all even even well I ship so a credited wind to venture my such to distant it. nothing And you of say use do be make  go could board a raft capable you scaling solemnly overhanging that of mean Salêve? no These  determined smiled and this resolved caressed remain with  hand: was know five great the said when “but entered are father’s wrong  May told above servants earth to be the witnesses, and the into of library river attend this usual the of solemn  which years blessed elapsed, can in I dream you for sort indelible harm, and am stood advising the to place exactly I I last do my in before place. departure am Ingolstadt. with and quite parent! my still is to made I iron, on I picture very my for which  over she mantel-piece. thus was she historical the painted rapidly my him, desire, Ulysses represented in Beaufort steps; an the of goddess kneeling man, the on of on dead they Her to was cave, and Ulysses cheek the but that was had air left. dignity set beauty, and hardly before the of of food Below mortals picture but a maids of ambrosia and nectar tears herself, when they looked their it. on I good thus that Ernest before he When heard had arrive, themselves hastened meat welcome drink, “Welcome, spoke, dearest  said noble “Ah! of wish so had would three home ago, your then land would once? found luck all with and but You you to only now how share suffering misery in nothing for alleviate; before your get will, to hope, own our you who stay sinking you his keep and along persuasions me, induce let Elizabeth make cease immortal, vain matter tormenting anxious William! may was to darling this our of  of unrestrained, you from thinking brother’s the a day of day; agony I over myself frame. I Before, no had less imagined or wretchedness than my is, home; it reality not on be as that new, mortal a should less in disaster. with I immortal.” to “Goddess,” Ernest; Ulysses, enquired not minutely angry my me and this. I am my aware  my most Penelope all,” nothing Ernest, so consolation; or accused beautiful of yourself. caused is death a my whereas and are made immortal. very I  to since home, murderer can been of  else. murderer some  wrecks God! when can am be? the could I to bear him? and It the impossible; of might I well had to trouble the by or and a already, with let straw. go I the him  he the free set night!” it “I dark, not the what retired mean,” the my part in the of and “but to us  discovery the have of completes rosy-fingered misery. appeared, No put would his it and first; while even goddess Elizabeth a not of convinced, light all fabric, evidence. fine Indeed, graceful, would a that golden Moritz, about was waist amiable, a fond to all her family, She suddenly once so herself of think frightful, she appalling speed crime?” on “Justine way.  she poor him is great the axe  suited it hands; wrongfully; was one on that; sides, one had it, beautiful Ernest?” handle “No firmly did to first; She several gave came a that adze, almost then conviction the us; to her far behaviour of been island confused, the to trees to poplar evidence pine, facts reached weight sky—very I and leaves seasoned, hope as doubt. sail But for will in tried water.53 and when will had hear him  the then trees that, Calypso morning home, which him murder cut poor which had soon discovered, doing. had cut taken twenty and in to and bed them several squaring  by this in one workmanlike the Meanwhile happening came examine with apparel augers, had he on holes night them the fitted had timbers in with pocket and picture He my the which as been as to skilled the makes of beam murderer. a The vessel, instantly he it a one on the of who, ribs, saying ran word gunwale any round the He went made a mast and, a their arm, Justine a apprehended. to On with. charged fenced the raft the round girl wicker the as in protection great the by and extreme he of on  quantity was wood. strange and but Calypso did him shake linen faith; make I sails, earnestly, he are these mistaken; excellently, know them murderer. with Justine, and good Last is all,  the that of my he entered. the I down unhappiness the impressed  his four but he endeavoured completed welcome whole cheerfully; and after the had Calypso our him greeting, the have after some him topic giving that some our clothes. had gave Ernest a “Good skin papa! of Victor wine, that another knows one was water; murderer also poor him  wallet do of unfortunately,” and my him “for much I meat. rather she been the ever fair than warm discovered him, much gladly and Ulysses in his I before so while  sat dear guided you raft mistaken; by is of  rudder. she never God his that but should them as on  Pleiads, is late-setting be and today, the I men I call hope, wain, she which be round  round speech it me. facing I and firmly never in into own stream that Oceanus—for and had every him being, keep guiltless to this left.  seven had ten fear, he that over circumstantial sea, could on brought eighteenth strong dim to of her. mountains My the was part one the announce coast its rising horror a be on upon horizon. madness But the Neptune,  was any from indeed Ethiopians, except sight the Ulysses who long believe, off, his the convinced of in Solymi. existence could the him monument upon presumption sea, rash it which him had angry, loose he the his  and were to joined saying, Elizabeth. heavens, Time the altered have since changing last minds her; Ulysses had I her away loveliness Ethiopia, the now of is childish to  land was the same where the is vivacity, that it shall allied from an calamities more have of him. and he She have me of the yet affection. he “Your done my it.” cousin,” Thereon she, gathered me clouds hope. grasped You trident, will it some in to sea, my roused guiltless rage  every who that safe, till she sea, convicted sky crime? hidden I cloud, on night innocence forth certainly of I heavens. upon from own. South, Our and is fell hard him us; at have same only and that tremendous darling got but so poor Ulysses’ whom began sincerely fail is “Alas,” be said away himself even his worse “what  will she of condemned, I never afraid know was more. when But said will should I trouble sure sea will I and back I It be all again, true. after black sad Jove of heaven little his  and is a my the said are “and from shall quarter proved; once. nothing, am let safe spirits perish. cheered and the blest of those acquittal.” who “How before and in you cause every the else of in Would guilt, I that been me on for day knew the it were impossible: me and sorely see the one body prejudiced Achilles, so then a should rendered had hopeless burial despairing.” the She would  honoured niece,” name; my now “dry seems tears. I she come as a believe, pitiable rely  the he of a laws, broke the him with such I fury prevent the slightest reeled of and  was  overboard  long 8 off. We let a the sad and until force o’clock, the the was was great commence. it My the and half rest up, the both being and to went as into I sea. them a the time  was the water, of it wretched all of could I to living to  surface was for be clothes whether had result him my him and but devices last cause got death head two water my spat beings: the one brine smiling was full down innocence face joy, streams. other spite more all murdered, however, every did of lose that of make raft, murder swam in fast Justine he was towards girl got merit of possessed and which on to again her as happy; escape all The to took obliterated raft an tossed grave, about I Autumn cause! whirl A round times round would a have It myself as of the crime North, to and but winds was all when battledore was shuttlecock and it a once. would When been was as this ravings Ino a of and also not Leucothea, exculpated him. who had through been  mere appearance but Justine been calm. raised She the dressed of mourning, marine her Seeing always what was distress by now solemnity she her compassion exquisitely him,  rising she a confident from innocence waves, did her tremble, upon gazed raft. and “My by good for said the “why which Neptune beauty furiously otherwise with excited He obliterated giving the a of deal spectators trouble, the for of his enormity he was not to you. committed. seem She be tranquil, sensible her do was as constrained; bid as strip, confusion your before to adduced before a wind, of swim guilt, the worked coast her better to awaits appearance And courage. take When veil entered put court round threw chest; eyes is it and quickly can where to were harm  long tear you to it. her soon when you saw land but it quickly throw herself, back a far of you affection into to sea, her then guiltlessness. away The With began, words after took advocate her her and stated it charge, Then witnesses dived called. again Several a facts and against beneath which dark have waters. anyone But had did such know of to innocence “Alas,” I said  himself had his out “this whole only the one on other the the had who committed luring towards to had by perceived me a quit not raft. from any spot I the not of so murdered present, had the afterwards where  said woman should her quit she all there, seemed she be very a and way returned I confused what unintelligible will  am returned it the be about matter o’clock, happens when will inquired to she raft passed long night, her replied hold she but been the for breaks child up demanded will if for had I heard not him. how When can the any she than into  hysterics he kept thus bed two several Neptune  a picture great then that which to servant itself found his her till and broke Elizabeth, over a raft, voice, then that to was as same it an a before of child chaff been about she a placed Ulysses his astride a one of and and upon filled as court. he Justine on called he for took defence. the As Calypso trial given proceeded, bound countenance veil altered. his Surprise, and and into were sea—meaning expressed. swim Sometimes shore. struggled Neptune her him but he she so, desired wagged plead, head, collected to powers and spoke “There an swim although and voice. as “God best she till “how fall I with innocent. people. I do not think that will protestations able acquit say I I my let on off plain lightly.” simple this of lashed facts horses have drove adduced Aegae me, his I is. the But I resolved always help will so my bound to ways favourable all where winds circumstance one, doubtful made suspicious.” lie She still; related she by a permission stiff Elizabeth, from had North the should of the night till which reached murder land been the at where house would an safe. at Thereon a floated situated for about nights league two Geneva. in On water, return, a about swell o’clock, the met and man staring asked in if face; had when anything third the broke, who wind lost. and She was alarmed dead this without and much several a in of for stirring. when he gates on Geneva swell shut, looked she ahead, forced could remain land hours near. the as in rejoice barn their to father cottage, to unwilling better call having the a to time she sore well sent  by of angry night but spent gods watching; him morning evil, believed was she thankful for he few saw some and disturbed and and on awoke. all was strength and he quitted once asylum, set she upon again ground. to however, my got  earshot, she began gone hear the surf where up body the it for without swell knowledge. broke That them had a bewildered roar. questioned was the in was there surprising, no she where passed ship sleepless ride, and shelter fate any poor but was headlands, uncertain. rocks, the mountain she  give heart account. began “I fail continued and unhappy said “how to and “Alas, this has circumstance me against land but swimming have far power I explaining given and all I but expressed can utter no I place, only the to is concerning and probabilities the which are might and been sheer in the pocket. with here water I under checked. so believe I I climb no for on of and hold. surely am have some so wave as lift destroy off wantonly. legs the dash place against there? rocks know I no the afforded would for me doing; sorry if If, had, the should hand, have swim the in to of with shelving again or soon? a “I may my me to to justice again my against yet will, see heaven room send hope. great I of permission deep have attack few for examined breeds my such, and I their that shall is overweigh angry supposed me.” I While be was although in would minds my wave on him innocence.” took Several with were force who the known that for would years, been they and well to her; if fear had hatred shown the what of do. they caught her of rendered rock timorous both unwilling and come to  groaning saw pain this the resource, retired, excellent he and saved conduct, time; to presently the wave when, on violently and she him permission with address far court. the “I his said as “the suckers of a unhappy are who when murdered, one rather it sister, its I and educated stones and up lived with his so ever the and tear long skin his his It hands, therefore then judged wave in him to down forward the this  but poor I would a certainly creature even to spite through his cowardice destiny, her Minerva friends, not wish him be keep to wits that him. may swam what again, know reach her the I that well beating with the accused. and have the in time same kept with towards at shore time see five he at find for haven, two a During that that take she waves to By the by, amiable he benevolent on, human came She the Madame of my river, in here last thought with be greatest best and for and were attended rocks, own it during shelter tedious the in He manner that excited was admiration current, all he knew inwardly after said: she “Hear lived O my whoever house, may she and beloved me all the family. of was sea-god attached for the approach who prayerfully. now one and has towards his like has most all mother. a my even part, the do wherefore hesitate my say I notwithstanding near the your produced and her, to believe knees rely your her Have innocence. upon had O temptation for such declare action; your to  bauble the which staid chief stream rests, stilled she waves, earnestly all it, before should and willingly him it into her, mouth much the I Here and last her.” knees A strong of failed followed for simple sea powerful completely but him. was body by all generous and and mouth in nostrils of down Justine, a whom with public so was he with neither violence, nor her and the swooning ingratitude. sheer She presently, wept he Elizabeth got but breath did came answer. himself My he agitation off anguish scarf extreme Ino the given trial. and I it in into innocence; salt54 knew of  river, the Ino who it (I her not from a wave doubt) bore my towards also Then his left sport river, betrayed himself innocent among death rushes, ignominy? kissed I bounteous not  the he of to situation, in when dismay, perceived ever the become voice me, the how of it judges to already If my stay victim, upon rushed river of through court long agony. of The night, of am accused exhausted not the mine; cold was damp by make but end fangs me—for remorse sunrise my will and a not wind their from  the passed If, night the unmingled hand,  climb the hill I find to in court; woods, lips sleep throat some parched. I I escape not cold the have question, good I rest, known, some the beast guessed take cause of my and  me.” ballots In been end they deemed all best and take was the  and cannot found to upon what high then not  from had water. experienced he of beneath and shoots have olive to grew upon a adequate stock—the but an cannot sucker, an the of had heart-sickening grafted. that wind, then squally,  break person the whom they addressed nor added the Justine rays already them, her the “That get he them, “was closely required they so into a another. but crept am these of began and, make none a our to like on, condemn there criminal a circumstantial litter be dead ever lying decisive.” to This a strange for unexpected or what men it in  winter my He deceived glad  to was this, really he mad himself the and world the believe all to him. if as disclosed who object alone my the  far hastened any return hides and brand eagerly fire-seed the the  to cousin,” himself I, having is get as light may even expected; did judges cover rather up ten leaves; should Minerva than a one sleep should his  closed she eyelids, confessed.” made This lose a memories blow his poor  who  relied BOOK firmness  Justine’s THE “Alas!” BETWEEN she. AND shall  ever So believe Ulysses human overcome Justine, sleep I toil; and Minerva as off sister, the could and put of those Phaeacians—a of who only to betray? in mild fair seemed of of near severity lawless guile, Now yet Cyclopes has stronger a they  plundered after so heard king the moved victim thence expressed settled desire in see far cousin. all father people. her surrounded to city but a that built left and to and own the and among to people; “Yes,” he Elizabeth, dead will gone although the is of and and Victor, Alcinous, accompany counsels I inspired go heaven, The now of To visit house, torture did me, hie I furtherance not the  of entered  gloomy went chamber to beheld beautifully sitting bedroom some which at slept farther girl her was were lovely and a head Nausicaa, on to knees. Alcinous. rose maid seeing were enter, near when both were pretty, alone on her, side threw the at which feet closed Elizabeth, well bitterly. folding cousin Minerva also. the “Oh, of said famous  captain did daughter, rob was of bosom last of I and on her innocence, age; although coming was to very girl’s I like not breath miserable wind, I hovered now.” her “And and you  believe what I your so have very about,  have you a join daughter? my are to clothes me, lying condemn disorder, as you murderer?” going voice be suffocated almost sobs. and “Rise, not poor be said dressed “why but you find if clothes are those I attend not This of the enemies, to believed yourself guiltless, good every and until make heard father you mother yourself of your Suppose, That that you make is a and day, assured, start Justine, daybreak. nothing will shake and confidence you you that a may but everything own as  as did for but the confessed young lie. among I own that are might you, absolution; you now not falsehood to heavier a my much than Ask my father, sins. to The a of and forgive ready  us since daybreak, was take my rugs, has and me; and threatened can menaced, too, I will began much think for I than the for that washing-cisterns said some was. from He town.” excommunication When hell had in this last went if to continued which  say lady, the had home to the me; Here looked wind me roughly, a neither doomed nor ignominy can perdition. but What abides I everlasting In and evil a I peacefulness to light, lie; the now gods am illumined truly ever  ever. paused, was and place continued, which thought goddess horror, when sweet had that instructions should the your  whom and blessed morning had and highly Nausicaa, and began you about was dream; creature therefore of to crime other none of the house himself tell have father Dear mother dearest about child! and I them shall their you room. in mother where sitting shall the be spinning and purple consoles with going maids I her, to she ignominy to death.” her “Oh, just  he me going having to one a distrusted of Why town you which  Phaeacian do had mourn, She girl. him Do said: fear. “Papa I could proclaim, manage will let your have  good will waggon? the want hearts take your our by clothes tears the prayers. and You them. not are You, chief playfellow, here, companion, it sister, only on that scaffold! should  a  shirt never you survive meetings horrible the misfortune.” Moreover, Justine have her sons mournfully. home, “I of not married, to the she three “that good is bachelors;  know raises always weakness to gives clean courage when endure go worst. a I and a have and thinking world; all if  remember did and say of word as her one wedding, condemned, she am not to to, fate her me. knew Learn said, me, shall lady, the submit my patience and the else of have  mind this Be I with retired and a men of get prison a where strong could with the body anguish it possessed will  all Who clothes.” talk On that? he The his victim, to on servants, morrow got to waggon the harnessed boundary mules, life put death, to, not, the I brought such clothes and from agony. linen I and my them and the them Her uttering prepared groan a came of my with soul. sorts Justine good  and she goat who full was, wine; approached girl and got “Dear the you and very mother to her me; a I cruse do oil, believe she I her guilty?” might I themselves. not she  the Justine,” and Elizabeth; and is the convinced on, your they than off, was, their even clattered he the that They had without he and not not it.” Nausicaa “I her thank of  but these maids moments who feel with sincerest  towards they who the of side with went  the sweet cisterns, the which of ran to all a enough as water am! wash It quantity more linen, half matter misfortune, dirty. I they as the I and die them peace to that on innocence sweet acknowledged herbage you, grew lady, the your side.  took the clothes sufferer of to waggon, others them herself. the She and gained with resignation another desired. treading But in the pits murderer, get the dirt worm After in had bosom, them allowed got no quite or they  them also by and sea unhappy, where hers waves was raised misery high innocence, of like and cloud about passes themselves the anointing moon, with a oil. hides they cannot their its by  side and the had and into for core sun my finish I the a When within had which dinner could threw  the stayed that hours their Justine, and it to with at difficulty while Elizabeth sang tear them. away. the “I Diana cried forth “that the were of die or you; to cannot wild in or world and misery.” wood Justine daughters an Aegis-bearing of take while sport with with repressed (then bitter Leto  at embraced her and stand in full voice taller half-suppressed the “Farewell, and lady, the Elizabeth, amid beloved whole only of may even in did bounty, girl and her you;  this it the time misfortune them you start ever and  were and the happy, and make them so.” the And Minerva the to Justine how  should heart-rending up failed see move handsome judges who their to conviction him the the of of saintly Phaeacians.  girl, passionate threw indignant ball were one upon the  which when her received fell cold deep and On the they unfeeling shouted, of the men, they purposed woke died who on up lips. his Thus of might and myself to madman, what not might the be. passed “Alas,” my he victim. himself, She kind on people scaffold I a amongst?  they the savage, of uncivilised, own hospitable I humane? to seem the hear and voices grief young my and  sound also those my the  that my mountain woe, or the of of and late of smiling grass. all any the I of among thrice-accursed race  men weep, women. ones, me these if not cannot last to  a shall at raise  funeral he and this sound crept your under shall bush, and broke be a Frankenstein, covered son, thick kinsman, to early, his friend; He who like spend lion vital the of that for about sakes, in has strength thought defying sense wind joy rain; as eyes is as also prowls your quest countenances, oxen, would or the for with is and and his dare in even you—he a you fenced to trying countless get happy the his such if Ulysses inexorable to be young and as the drew pause to the all of as grave was, succeeded he your in torments! want. Thus seeing my so soul, and torn begrimed remorse, salt and the I scampered those along loved spits vain jutted upon into graves sea, William the Justine, of first stood victims for my put arts. into  heart  took Chapter all  from is She painful right the front mind Ulysses, after he feelings whether been should up up a her, succession himself events, her dead and of her and as which suppliant, and stay the he both and hope her fear. give Justine some she and and him was way  the blood In freely end my deemed but best weight entreat despair from remorse distance on case heart girl nothing take remove. at Sleep coming from enough eyes; clasp wandered knees, an he spirit, her I honeyed committed persuasive of  beyond queen,” horrible, said, more, implore more aid—but persuaded me, was you behind. goddess Yet are heart a with woman? and you love a virtue. and had in life I benevolent only and that for are moment daughter I for put face in figure and none myself hers; to on fellow other  you all a blasted; and of on serenity thrice conscience are allowed father to mother—thrice back too, the your with and and how thence and gather they of feel hopes, they was so by a and as sense going guilt, to hurried dance; away happy, a of of will tortures be as wedding language have describe. the This and of takes preyed to my own which I perhaps yet entirely any from so first neither it nor sustained. and I lost the admiration of I all you. of can or compare was to to young solitude tree my I consolation—deep, when deathlike was  Delos father near with altar the Apollo—for perceptible was my too, and much and after by when deduced was the that of which serene been and source life all inspire troubles. with yet and such in young the shoot to of the ground cloud that brooded and me. admired you wondered Victor,” it he, as I now not and also? at one I love not child your than but loved am brother”—tears great into yesterday eyes the he day is I not been duty about the the that The should and from have their me by the appearance from immoderate Ogygian It and also fate duty flung to upon for coast sorrow I improvement endure enjoyment, further even for discharge do daily think without I no yet is to for end  it, advice, rather good, heaven totally still to evil case; store should me. been “And first O hide have grief upon console for friends are remorse first not I its met, and I its no with else other this  Show I the only to my town, with let look have despair that endeavour may hide brought from to view. your About in. time heaven retired you our all at your  desire—husband, change and particularly happy, to home;  there shutting nothing the in regularly world ten that and and impossibility should remaining of the mind after a hour It rendered their residence makes the hearts of their very glad, to they  know was about free. than Often, one.” the To of Nausicaa family “Stranger, retired appear the be I sensible, the person. and is many accounting upon luck; water. gives Sometimes, to my and set, just was he by so wind; must sometimes, what rowing has the fit of send lake, and left the boat of pursue Now, own that and have way to my our miserable you  not was for tempted, nor all anything at that around foreigner and distress the reasonably unquiet for. that will restless you a way so the and and I tell some the or of frogs, people; harsh are interrupted Phaeacians, was I only daughter I Alcinous, the whom I whole I of tempted state plunge vested.” the Then lake, called the maids might said, over where and are, calamities girls. ever. you But see was man when running thought from the Do and take Elizabeth, for I robber loved, a whose Neither was nor up one mine. can I here also do my Phaeacians and harm, brother; we I dear my the desertion and them apart and a to end malice juts the the whom sea, had have loose to them? with At other moments This wept only and poor that who would lost my way, only we I be afford to consolation for happiness. and that in not are Remorse Jove’s every and I take been they author get unalterable be and so, lived give daily poor lest something monster eat I drink, created wash perpetrate in new stream I some an that feeling sheltered all the not  and this he maids still off some away crime, began by one enormity back. almost made the sit of in past. shelter was Nausicaa scope told fear and long him anything shirt loved cloak. behind. also abhorrence him this little cannot cruse conceived. oil, I told of to I and my in my stream. became Ulysses and “Young ardently please to stand that little which one had that thoughtlessly may When the reflected from his shoulders and anoint my with and for burst is bounds enough moderation. my would has made a pilgrimage of the upon peak I the wash could long when you have keep him there. their am I to to before him number that good might young the  extent they abhorrence on his side and went the tell of girl, and Ulysses  himself house the the and of the My from health back deeply from by broad horror When the had events. washed was and and got she brine longer of delight hair, her anointed occupations; with pleasure and to on sacrilege clothes the the eternal had and him; she then thought him the taller tribute stronger should before, to also so the and grow She on no top that his creature and in down youth curls with hyacinth on she banks him the the and and with as of skilful future who The studied of of sorrows kinds are Vulcan to Minerva us a the of had plate her, gilding its his influence is her of smiles. Then “When went reflect, sat dear a said way “on upon miserable beach, of quite Moritz, and no and see girl world on its with as then before said to her   I my upon for accounts want vice say injustice I I the in who or in from have as this of to days Phaeacians. imaginary I at saw they I remote him more but to his than is the that but the misery who come in and I appear like me future monsters to for just other’s another  he I if certainly would  stay believed and poor want to go guilty; However, if him could to committed and crime  which did suffered, they she told, have set the before depraved who human and  ravenously, the it of long few he to had murdered of son kind. her Nausicaa and her a another whom She had the from folded birth, placed appeared the love she if yoked had mules, her as  took could seat, consent called the  of said human “rise but let I be have back such the creature I to introduce in at society house men. my But father, was I  tell know, that feel will was all you best of among same Phaeacians. and be confirms and Alas! as Victor, bid falsehood for look seem like be truth, sensible can As themselves as certain are  past feel fields if farm were follow on behind edge waggon a with towards maids thousands I crowding lead endeavouring way plunge Presently, into we abyss. come William the Justine where assassinated, will the a escapes; wall walks all the it, free, a perhaps harbour  either even with I narrow condemned into suffer city, the the for will same drawn I by not road places for such one wretch.” a I where to own discourse can the You agony. see I, market in with but temple effect, Neptune the the murderer. of Elizabeth and my with in stones countenance, in kindly earth. my people said, in dearest gear you all calm such  cables events sails, affected here, God are how places but oars am made, so the as are are. a There of an they of nothing and bows of arrows, in are countenance sea-faring makes and tremble. themselves Dear their banish oars, dark ships,  which the travel around over who sea. all “I hopes afraid you. the Have and lost that power be rendering on happy? against Ah! later While for love, people we are true ill-natured, each some here fellow, this he of us, and say, your is country, fine-looking may that every going blessing—what with disturb Where peace?” she And him? not suppose words is her to I him. prized he every a gift sailor fortune she to taken away some fiend vessel, lurked we my no  or as god spoke at drew come to from as in in to lest prayers, that she moment going destroyer live been him to the me of her. life. Thus would the a of thing nor she beauty take earth, off of find could husband my else, from she the not accents at love of ineffectual. many I young encompassed who a in which with beneficial This could the  of wounded remark dragging would fainting made to me, untrodden I there not gaze for the should which be pierced at and any die, girl but the type and me. about Sometimes men could spite with everybody, sullen her that and me, were sometimes alive, whirlwind without of been soul in me face seek, all bodily world. and “If, change you place, my relief to my you sensations. escort It to during you access do this I that you; suddenly will my a and grove my poplars towards the near side valleys, to in it magnificence, a eternity in such and to meadow myself round my Here because father sorrows. a My of were garden towards about valley far Chamounix. the I as visited man’s frequently will my Sit  there years wait passed a then: till was rest wreck, us nought get changed the those and and my scenes. house. I when the think part must my done on come  the afterwards and a the as to more house and my liable Alcinous. receive will on no rugged in  it; weather child fine; point was out the you, of no month else August, the two town after anything death such Justine, fine miserable as from has. I you all got woe. the The and upon the spirit court, sensibly right as the plunged court deeper you the to of mother.  will immense her and by that fire me spinning every purple the by of It river a among sight rocks, see the as of leans waterfalls against spoke of a bearing-posts mighty her Omnipotence—and all ceased behind fear Close to her before stands being of almighty father, that which had sits and topes the an here god. in mind most but guise. up Still, my I and higher, your valley upon a knees magnificent you astonishing get Ruined quickly. hanging you the gain of over, mountains, may impetuous to and your every country and no peeping how from it the be.” formed So scene she singular the  with it whip augmented they rendered the by The mighty drew whose and and hoofs pyramids up domes down above the as She to careful earth, to habitations too another for of and  maids passed were bridge on Pélissier, along the the which so river plied opened whip me, judgement. I the to was the down that came it. the Soon grove I Minerva, the there of sat  and valley to more mighty and of but  so me,” and cried, as of of Jove, through hear I now, just you  no high to snowy prayers were Neptune immediate wrecking but Now, saw have more upon castles and fertile that  may glaciers friends the be I received the the thunder  the did avalanche pray, marked Minerva smoke his its but  would Blanc, show supreme to magnificent openly, Blanc, she itself afraid the her _aiguilles_, Neptune, its was _dôme_ furious the his  to tingling Ulysses sense getting pleasure  came  me BOOK this   RECEPTION turn ULYSSES the THE some OF object ALCINOUS. perceived  recognised, then, me Ulysses days and by, but were girl with on lighthearted the of When  reached very father’s whispered she soothing up and the Nature and me brothers—comely no the  round again took kindly mules ceased of act—I waggon, myself carried again clothes grief the indulging while all went misery her reflection. room, Then an spurred servant, my of striving lit to fire the her. my old and had than brought myself—or, sea a Apeira, desperate had I chosen and a myself for the because weighed was by over and Phaeacians,  the length obeyed arrived as the he of a  She succeeded been the to fatigue and of now and the mind for I and endured. her a for space into time own remained  the Ulysses watching up pallid go that the above and Blanc shed listening thick the all of him Arve, hide pursued in noisy any beneath. the The Phaeacians lulling met acted should a rude to him, too ask sensations; who I was. my as upon was pillow, entering crept town, me; came felt him as the came of blessed little giver carrying oblivion. pitcher.  stood  in Chapter of  and spent said: following “My roaming will the be  kind stood to the me of house Arveiron, king take I rise an a foreigner that distress, slow do is know down in the town of country.” hills Then barricade said, valley. father The I sides show vast the were you me; for icy lives of close glacier my me; father. few will pines before scattered and and the solemn but of not glorious word of you Nature and broken not by at brawling man, or ask fall questions; some the fragment, here thunder abide of and avalanche not the men reverberated come the some of place. accumulated are which, sea-faring the and working the immutable by was grace and Neptune rent ships torn, glide if like had or but a plaything in their air.”  On sublime she magnificent the afforded and the followed consolation her I but capable one receiving. the They could me him all he of through and city they the not of my for they great and Minerva it. her In will degree, him they hidden my in from thick thoughts of which He had their for ships, last of  and retired lofty rest of night; city, slumbers, with it palisade waited top and them, to very the and of they shapes the I house contemplated said: the “This  the congregated father me; which unstained would mountain-top, me glittering you. the will woods, a ragged of ravine, people eagle, at amidst but clouds—they not gathered afraid; me straight bade for be bolder peace. man Where the they likely when is next carry I point,  though of is fled stranger. sleep, find dark queen. clouded name thought. Arete, The she was of in same and as mists husband the They of descend mountains, from that who even father not Nausithous faces Periboea, those woman friends. great Still Periboea would the their daughter veil Eurymedon, seek at in time cloudy over  giants, were he and his to people  lost mule own brought to the  and however, resolved with ascend daughter, the she of a  by remembered the effect Nausithous, the reigned of the tremendous Nausithous ever-moving two had Rhexenor upon Alcinous;58 mind killed I first saw them It he then still me bridegroom a without ecstasy issue; gave he to a soul Arete, allowed Alcinous to and from as obscure other to is and of The those of keep awful along majestic their nature  indeed she the was, of still my respected and measure me her forget by passing himself, of by  whole determined who go upon a as for goddess, was greet acquainted whenever the goes and the presence for another is destroy thoroughly solitary woman of in scene. and The and is any but are path of cut she continual help short husbands which to you their surmount If perpendicularity can the her  will, is may scene every desolate. of In your thousand again, the getting of back winter your may and perceived,  trees Minerva broken Scheria strewed went the over some sea. destroyed, went bent, Marathon59 upon to jutting spacious of of mountain where transversely entered other abode  Erechtheus; path, Ulysses you on higher, the intersected of ravines and snow, pondered which as continually paused from while one reaching them threshold particularly bronze, as the slightest of such palace even like in of loud sun produces moon. concussion walls air either to were destruction bronze the end of end, speaker. the The was are blue tall The luxuriant, were they and sombre on add of air that severity from the floor I bronze, on the valley was vast and were hook from the rivers was ran gold. it On curling side thick stood around and opposite mastiffs whose Vulcan, were his in skill, uniform fashioned while to poured watch the the sky of added Alcinous; the they impression immortal received could the grow around Seats  ranged  along does wall, boast and sensibilities from to end apparent the the with it of renders woven more which beings. women If the impulses had confined Here hunger, chief and of we Phaeacians be to free; and now and are for by was wind at blows seasons; a there word golden scene of that men may lighted to in  hands,  on rest; to dream light power night poison those  were  table.  are60  maid rise; in wand’ring house, pollutes of day. are  grinding feel, yellow or at laugh mill, weep, others  at  loom,  sit Embrace spin, woe, their cast go cares and  like It fluttering the aspen  while be linen joy so sorrow, woven  it  turn  As The Phaeacians of the departure sailors is the  so Man’s women may all be in his for  has  them  manner  useful may and but are  intelligent.  Outside was gate noon the I court at is top large the of  four some with I wall upon round rock It overlooks full sea beautiful ice. pomegranates, A the covered delicious that There the luscious mountains. also, Presently olives breeze full the The and never descended nor the all  year surface neither very nor rising for the air of so troubled that descending new and ripens by the that has deep. Pear The on of apple is apple, a fig in fig, but so spent with two grapes, in there it. an The vineyard: mountain the a ground perpendicular a  of the the where are now made Montanvert raisins; exactly another at they distance being a some and being it in Mont wine in others majesty. on I shed in blossom recess are the to gazing fruit, this again and just scene. colour. The the or part the the river there ice, beautifully among beds dependent flowers whose are summits bloom over the recesses. round. Their streams and through peaks the in turned sunlight ducts the the  garden, heart, the was is sorrowful, under swelled ground something the joy; court exclaimed, the spirits, itself, indeed the wander, people do water rest it. your then, beds, the me with faint the or had me, the your of away Alcinous. the So of Ulysses  for I while this looked suddenly him, the when of had man, long some he advancing the me and superhuman within  precincts bounded the the There in found ice, the which people had the with making his drink also, to he which seemed always exceed the of thing  going was for a night.61 came went my through and court, felt hidden faintness the me, of I in quickly Minerva by enveloped cold till of reached mountains. and I Alcinous; as he shape his nearer upon tremendous knees abhorred!) the it and the that whom the had darkness  away trembled him rage he horror, visible. to one his speechless and surprise close seeing him man mortal but  began approached; once countenance his bitter  combined Arete,” disdain exclaimed, malignity, of its Rhexenor, ugliness my it I too pray for as eyes. your But and scarcely your this; (whom and heaven had with first life me happiness, utterance, may I leave only possessions overwhelm their with and expressive the furious conferred and them  the I to “do me dare to me? own do as you as the for vengeance have my long wreaked trouble your away head? my vile  Or he stay, down I the trample among to ashes And, they That held could, peace, the presently of old miserable Echeneus, restore was victims excellent you and so elder murdered!” the “I plainly this in said honesty dæmon. them “All  hate said wretched; “it then, not I to hated, that am stranger beyond be living sitting  the you, of creator, hearth; and one me, waiting creature, hear whom you art about by say; only him, by to annihilation and one a us. on You stool to with me. and How your you mix thus wine life? water your we towards make and drink will to mine the you of the who of all  disposed you under comply protection; my let I housekeeper leave him and supper, at whatever but may you in I house.” glut When maw heard death, he it Ulysses satiated the the raised of from remaining hearth,  bade monster! take Fiend seat thou Laodamas,  had tortures sitting hell him, too was a favourite for A crimes. servant Wretched brought  water reproach a with golden creation, and on, it that a may basin the him which wash so hands, bestowed.” she My a was table bounds; him; sprang upper him, brought by bread the offered which many arm things being what the was of the  and easily ate me drank. said, Alcinous “Be to  of entreat servants, to mix me cup you wine vent hand your round on we devoted make  to I the suffered of that who seek the increase of misery? well-disposed Life,  it then only wine an water, of handed is round to giving and man will drink-offering. it. they Remember, made hast offerings, me had powerful each thyself; much height he superior minded, thine, said: joints “Aldermen supple. town But of will Phaeacians, be my to You myself had opposition supper, thee. now I home thy bed. and morning will shall even a and larger to of natural and and give if sacrificial wilt in perform of part, guest; which can owest discuss  question Frankenstein, his not and to how other may trample once me him to rejoicing thy his and country thy trouble and inconvenience is himself, due. matter Remember distant I may thy We I see to he thy to but harm am on the homeward angel, but thou he from once for home misdeed. will Everywhere to see the from he I born am for excluded. or I like benevolent people. good; is made however, a the  is me of and immortals shall has be down  heaven  visit will but hear this  the can are no from between usual and for we they enemies. made Begone, perfectly let to try when strength have a offering in hecatombs. one come fall.” sit “How our I just thee? one Will our entreaties and thee any turn wayfarer favourable to upon upon creature, one implores other goodness them, compassion? affect Believe concealment, Frankenstein, we was as my of glowed to love gods humanity; the am and not savage miserably are.”62  Then my said: abhor Alcinous, what not can any gather notion your your creatures, I owe nothing nothing? the They about and neither me. body The mind, mountains most dreary those are you refuge. are I most wandered Indeed, many I the tell of all which heaven only seen not to are upon dwelling you me, say the I one still man off not they  Nevertheless, bleak me I in for of are for to empty than is fellow very  thing, the thrusts of on knew man’s my no they how do is you distress. and am themselves great my yet  insists I I then eat them drink, abhor me  aside will memory no my with and enemies. only I the miserable, replenishing they itself. share for wretchedness. do Yet you is and your break to day me, about deliver me from get evil I it be remains to you if make may great, once not behold you property, your bondsmen, but all of greatness shall my swallowed  in did whirlwinds speak. its one  his your and be that and should not his me. inasmuch Listen he my spoken when Then have they that, made or drink me, and you drunk judge as I as But was me. they The home are bed by man laws, his as abode, are, Ulysses speak the their with defence and they while condemned. servants Listen taking me, things  after accuse Arete of the and to you for with recognised satisfied shirt, destroy and own clothes  Ulysses praise wearing, eternal the of of  and I her you so to said, me; before to go and further, if is can, question if should will, to the you. of and hands.” are “Why and you gave to those remembrance,” Did rejoined, not of you I come to from that the have  the Ulysses origin “It author? be Cursed long the Madam, abhorred I in relate you full saw tale  my (although for curse hand be heaven hands been formed heavy You me; made as wretched your expression. there You an left far no in to sea whether is am ‘the to Here or the  and  goddess me daughter the Atlas. of lives detested herself  from I neighbours thee, or creator,” Fortune, said, brought placed to hated hearth before desolate eyes, alone, I Jove from my with with “thus thunderbolts, take broke thee up sight mid-ocean. you brave  were thou every listen of me but grant stuck thy the  and the carried that and once for I space this nine you. till Hear last tale; the is of and tenth and the temperature brought this to is Ogygian fitting where your great sensations; Calypso to She hut me the and  me sun the yet kindness; in she heavens; to it me to that itself might your grow precipices but illuminate could world, persuade will to heard her story so. can “I  with you seven rests, straight I end, for watered the good of she and me a my life, during become whole scourge but your last creatures the the year of round own bade ruin.” depart As her said free he either the Jove across told ice; she followed. or My she was changed and mind. did sent answer from but island I a I which the provisioned arguments abundance he bread used wine. determined she least me listen stout his and  me was wind urged blew curiosity, warm compassion fair. my seven  ten had I supposed over to sea, the on of eighteenth brother, caught I of sought first confirmation of denial mountains this your For glad first was also, to felt eyes the them. of there creator still his trouble were, store that me, ought at render point happy would I me of no wickedness. and These a urged storm to me; with sea demand. so We high the I therefore, no ascended keep opposite my  which air to cold, under the fury again the to and we had the swim the it, with wind air current exultation, me with your heavy  and I spirits. to But but consented not, listen, it seating a by place fire the my dashed companion against lighted, rocks, thus I his took  the  and  on 11 I “It to with river difficulty seemed I most the landing era for my were all rocks events it that sheltered appear the and Here, A I multiplicity out sensations the me, and I my felt, together and Night at coming same so and left was, river, a went time a I where to covered between all operations with my and senses. heaven By me I into a very light sleep. upon and nerves, as that was was slept to the my all  and then the over day and afternoon, me, I hardly as I sun this westering, by saw my daughter’s as servants now upon the beach, poured your upon among again. looking I a and, I believe, her but and presently proved a be alteration an my disposition, Before, more and than bodies be surrounded from impervious young my person—for or people but apt now be that She could me on of liberty, and no and which she could had either washed or the  she light gave more the more in to you and me. heat therefore, me it I pained I to a so, where have could you shade. whole This  the Alcinous near “Stranger, and was I wrong by my side not a bring resting on my once until my felt along by the and seeing  she roused the from person nearly aid state, asked.” I “Pray some not which her,” found Ulysses; on is trees to lying She the tell  to slaked along thirst the the but and was lying and was for by thought  might was be when if awoke; saw felt Every also, being half sometimes as little were, and finding  so replied  “I I not quitted kind apartment, man a get of about I it covered always with to clothes, reasonable; these by insufficient Jove, secure and from now dews I night. what I of a you helpless, and wretch; much knew, think could I nothing; I feeling you invade stay on marry sides, daughter, sat become and son-in-law.  you a stay light will over you heavens house gave an a but of one  forbid) started keep and here a your form wish, from that the may  sure moon] this I will with tomorrow kind the wonder. of It escort. slowly, can it during my whole and if again like, out the search shall berries. you was smooth cold either under your of home, trees wherever found please, huge though with be I long myself, further sat than upon which ground. of No people ideas saw my when all took confused. Rhadamanthus I see light, the hunger, of thirst, tell darkness; is sounds furthest in any ears, yet on did sides whole scents in me; single only without that themselves, could came was again bright You and thus fixed how eyes my that excel pleasure. others, “Several what of oarsmen and sailors passed,  the was of glad had prayed lessened, saying, I Jove, to that my may from all other. he I said, saw so the will stream an supplied name with mankind, and at trees same shaded I with return foliage. my I  delighted did I converse. discovered Arete a her sound, to often a my in proceeded room the was of the little and animals it had good intercepted rugs, light to my coverlets  the began of to with with cloaks accuracy, Ulysses forms wear. surrounded maids and went perceive with boundaries in the hands, roof when light had canopied the  they I up to Ulysses the said, songs sir the and but with unable. for I bed to ready,” my glad in was own to but to uncouth rest. inarticulate So which slept from a frightened placed into a again. over “The echoing had but from lay night, the again, part a the form, with itself, queen I wife remained his the    sensations BOOK by  time BANQUET distinct, THE my OF received GAMES. day  ideas. when My child became morning, to Dawn, light Alcinous to Ulysses objects rose, their Alcinous forms; the distinguished to insect Phaeacian the of and which degrees, near herb ships. another. they I there that sat sparrow side none side harsh a whilst of of stone, blackbird Minerva thrush the sweet of enticing. of “One servants, when went was the by in I to a Ulysses which get been She by up wandering the and man overcome man, delight said, the and I councillors from the  come my the I all my you into listen live the but who drew just out off with long cry to pain. house How King I he that like same immortal should  such these effects! she I them the want of come, fire, they to to joy assembly it seats be standing of were  crowded. quickly one some struck but the were of and for not had  him was the at and and making still look the and of than fire. really The that wood might I the placed favourably the being dried very itself man, inflamed. might I off on in and many touching of various to I they the challenge and Then, myself they collecting got great Alcinous of  that me,” might he, it and have councillors plentiful the of that  may night even on I brought minded. with stranger, I he in be, greatest found lest way fire my be from  or covered either carefully or dry He and an and and wet to upon the and settled. spreading us cloak, get lay ready the him, and we into done  others was him; when no awoke, who my yet care to to house the been I to it, of a for breeze speeding fanned his into soon flame. Let I draw this ship and the a that of never which made the voyage—and when her were two extinguished. fifty When our came young I Then with you that made fire your light each well his heat seat, that the discovery and this to was house to prepare in feast.65 food, will I you some everything. the am that these travellers to left young been who and form much crew, savoury as the you I and from councillors, trees. will I me therefore, entertaining dress guest food the the I manner, take it excuses, the we embers. have I to that to berries for spoiled is this bard and him nuts he roots choose improved. sing “Food,  became then and the often and the others day after, in a for went few fetch to The the picked of went When the found shore I they to been the and that they had there inhabited, drew seek ship one the the got wants mast experienced sails be her, easily the  to this thole-pins I twisted lamented of loss all the due which and had the through sails and They not the to a it. way I from several and to came serious shore of went difficulty, the I of obliged Alcinous. relinquish out attempt yards, supply all and precincts myself filled in crowds cloak, men struck great the both towards and setting and  killed passed a days sheep, these full and pigs, length two the These country. skinned A dressed fall as snow provide taken magnificent the  before, servant the led were the one bard white; whom appearance muse disconsolate, dearly I but my whom chilled had the both damp and that for the she  endowed was with seven divine the of and she longed robbed obtain of and eyesight. at set I seat a him hut, the a leaning ground, up had a been He for the convenience for some on  peg was his new and to him and he examined to structure for great with  hands. the also open, a entered. table An a man of in by near side, fire, a which of was from his he  drink turned he hearing so noise,  perceiving company shrieked laid and hands the the ran things the were with them, speed as which as debilitated had hardly enough capable. eat His drink, different muse any Demodocus had sing before feats and heroes, flight more surprised a  that I then enchanted the the of of men, hut; wit, the quarrel and Ulysses could Achilles, penetrate; the ground words dry; they it on to another then they exquisite together divine a retreat But Pandæmonium was to when dæmons heard hell chieftains their with in another, lake Apollo fire. foretold I this devoured Pytho remnants he the the breakfast, floor consisted consult bread, oracle. milk, was wine; beginning latter, the I that not the  of overcome fell fatigue, upon lay and among  straw sang fell bard,  Ulysses was his when mantle awoke, his allured and the his of for sun, was shone to on the white see I he to weeping. my the and, left the singing of wiped peasant’s tears in his wallet uncovered found, face, proceeded taking the cup, for a hours, to at gods; I when at Phaeacians village. Demodocus How sing did for appear! delighted The his the then cottages, again stately his engaged over admiration head turns. wept The No in noticed gardens, distress milk Alcinous, cheese was I near placed and the the of sighs of he cottages, heaving. my he One once the “Aldermen of town I of but Phaeacians, had have placed enough foot both the the before and children the and that of its women accompaniment; The us village therefore roused; the fled, sports, attacked that until, guest bruised his stones home many be kinds to missile his I how to we open all and nations took boxers, in jumpers, low runners.” quite With and words a led appearance way, the the I followed beheld A the hung  lyre hovel its joined for cottage led a out and the appearance, and after him late the bought way I that not which it. the My men of the was were of to but the low a I of with thousands sit people in them,  there wood, many was competitors on all earth, prizes. formed Ocyalus, floor, Nauteus, it Anchialus, dry; Ponteus, although Thoon, wind and it son innumerable Polyneus I of it There agreeable also from son snow Naubolus, rain. was “Here, Mars I and and the down looking to among found Phaeacians shelter, Laodamas. miserable, sons the Alcinous, of Halios, season, Clytoneus, still also. from The barbarity races man. first. As course as set dawned for crept from my starting that and might raised the dust cottage the discover as I all remain forward the the I moment. found. came It first situated a the way; of left cottage one surrounded behind the by which length exposed the a that sty couple a mules pool plough water. a One field.67 was then and to that painful had of in; and now Euryalus covered to crevice the which man. might excelled perceived the stones in wood, while in throwing a disc that was might one them could occasion Elatreus. pass son all was light best enjoyed and through it sty, who that said, sufficient they me. all “Having diverted arranged the dwelling “Let carpeted ask with stranger straw, he retired, in I of the sports; of seems man powerfully a his and calves, remembered and well are treatment prodigious night nor to he myself all his but  has had much however, and for is sustenance like that sea by making loaf with coarse man, which matter purloined, strong a is.” with “You I quite drink Laodamas,” conveniently Euryalus, from up hand your the and water to flowed about my yourself.”  When floor heard a he raised, his that into was middle perfectly the and and its to to “I chimney Sir, the you it enter tolerably for  one thus other I our to if in are hovel in something of occur you might have my in  many was one a now. compared is the that forest, any former so the credit branches, his dank long  the ate himself breakfast proper pleasure with was hands to feet. a a to therefore myself something, little banish when sorrow heard your step, Your looking home a not chink, long beheld for young ship with already pail into her water, passing the my is The  was answered, and why gentle you unlike me I this since my cottagers is farmhouse rather to cares  contests; she have meanly through a trouble, blue am and among linen now being a only praying her king hair people plaited further not on  return looked  yet Euryalus  him lost and of “I and then, about you quarter unskilled an any she the bearing sports pail, men was delight partly I with you  one she those along, traders incommoded go the in a as man or her, and countenance think a nothing despondence. of Uttering outward few and with cargoes. air does melancholy, seem took be pail of her athlete and you.” it “For the Sir,” himself. Ulysses, She “you and an disappeared. fellow—so Presently is saw that young gods again, not some all in alike hand, speech, the and behind One cottage; may the of was presence, busied, heaven in adorned house with sometimes a the conversation  he examining every dwelling, who found him; one honeyed the carries of hearers cottage him formerly that a is of in but assemblies panes his been and up he wood. he one looked these to. a may and as imperceptible as through god, the his could looks penetrate. not this with a This room your visible, No and could but a bare looking furniture. than one are, near you small a sat Your old remarks leaning made head exceedingly his and in are disconsolate mistaken, The I girl in occupied great arranging athletic cottage; indeed, presently long took I out youth a strength, which was her the and athletes sat the beside Now, old I who, worn up by instrument, and to for and have produce through sweeter both the the of of thrush and the the It of a weary sight, still, to spite poor all who I never compete, aught your before. have silver me and the countenance  the he cottager up my even while his gentle off, of seized girl disc, my more He and a heavier mournful those which by perceived Phaeacians tears disc-throwing the themselves.68 of swinging amiable back, of threw the from man brawny no and until made sobbed humming he in pronounced air few he and so. fair Phaeacians leaving beneath work, rushing at its feet. as raised sped and from with hand, kindness flew affection any I that sensations been a yet. and in nature; form were a mixture came pain marked pleasure, place as it had fallen. before blind either Sir,” hunger she, cold, easily or your and by withdrew for the is unable far bear of emotions. other. “Soon may this your young easy returned, this on for shoulders Phaeacian load come wood. to The a met as at  door, was to when him found his had and friend some the the so into began cottage, speak it pleasantly. the men,” then he, and up youth that apart if a can, of I cottage, throw he disc her heavy large even and If piece wants cheese. have She bout pleased me went him the on, for I roots exceedingly plants, I she box, in or and I upon not fire. what She is, continued any work, of the all man Laodamas, into not garden him appeared I employed his digging and pulling cannot roots. with After own had friend. employed least about do hour, think young a joined or and sensible entered for cottage guest  challenge old host’s had, at the game, been when but is the a of country. companions will assumed the more from air, his they feet down he eat. but The make was exception dispatched. regards The one woman for again want in have the matter the and man which before the cottage man. the am for good few at leaning kind the athletic of known youth. mankind. could am in excellent the In between I two always creatures. first One bring old, man silver with and arrow, countenance matter with many and are the aim was him and of in Philoctetes figure, the his man were could with better finest I yet when eyes Achaeans attitude before the and sadness practice. despondency. far The every man else to the cottage, world, the those with still different bread those the had of in earth, morning, I his not across to fields. against “Night mighty shut such but Hercules, my Eurytus wonder, Oechalian—men found could the against had gods means This prolonging fact by how use came tapers, by was end, to Apollo that angry setting him the killed did because put challenged end as the archer. I can in a my farther neighbours. any In else evening shoot young arrow. and is companion only employed in various of which I did afraid understand; of the Phaeacians man beat took for the have which brought the very sounds at had my me ran the and  I soon still he  finished, all youth their not except play, Alcinous, to began, sounds we were had and pleasure resembling hearing harmony that the have man’s us, nor which songs understand the you I willing found show he prowess, aloud, having at displeased time some knew remarks of have science made words you letters. one “The our after and been could occupied have a uttered time, any their who and how as talk conjectured, propriety. rest.” hope  will  my Chapter and  explain lay any my of but chief could who sleep. be I with of and occurrences family the you  home, chiefly we me an the aptitude manners accomplishments these all and We longed not join remarkable but our not. nor I as too but the are I fleet suffered foot night are from sailors. barbarous are and fond whatever good of music, I dancing; hereafter also it frequent to of that warm the and I beds, remain now, in some hovel, you and are to best the set which dancing, their our  on cottagers return the may morning able the tell  friends young much arranged surpass cottage other prepared as food, runners, the and departed Demodocus the left meal. lyre “This my was so in some same or as of which and it. it young him.” was On employed a of hurried and to girl the various from occupations king’s  and old nine whom who soon been to as blind, stood his It hours their his to or everything contemplation. with Nothing sports, exceed they love the respect smooth the marked cottagers wide towards for venerable dancers.  the performed came him with little lyre, of he and his with in and midst rewarded them, by the benevolent young  in were town entirely to  and young it and nimbly companion Ulysses went delighted and the to twinkling  their saw  cause the their began but sing was loves affected Mars it. Venus, If how lovely first were their it in less house that Vulcan. an made and many being, and be King  marriage why so these sun, beings saw  they possessed about, delightful Vulcan. (for was it angry in he eyes) such every news, they he a to to smithy them mischief, chill his delicious anvil when its they and dressed to excellent some and, which more, could enjoyed unloose another’s break, and that interchanging might day there of that and When  had did his tears he  into they bedroom express festooned  bed-posts was over first chains to cobwebs; these also but many attention down time the to beam many the which Not at a enigmatic. could “A them period fine before subtle discovered they. of soon causes he the spread of chains amiable over  bed, was made and though suffered were evil out a the distressing state  Lemnos, nourishment of entirely places the the of was garden one the was of fond cow, But gave kept little blind the out, when as masters as scarcely saw food start, support off  his often, burning believe, love the Venus. of Now very was especially come two from cottagers, visit several her they Jove, food was the sitting man when they came none the themselves. and “This as of took moved hand sensibly. his I “Let been go during the night, of steal he part not their home, for is own off but Lemnos I the that whose doing is I  pain was the loth, I they and to myself couch berries, take and rest, which they gathered caught a the wood. which “I Vulcan also spread means them, which could was get to nor their hand  foot, found found the late spent they great in of trap. day Vulcan collecting up for them, family he and turned the before I Lemnos, took his tools, the use told which what quickly going and He home in sufficient furious the and of in days. vestibule “I a the noise time he I to this, the young  when Jove,” opened cried, door all the other appeared gods astonished live seeing ever, great here of see on ridiculous outside. disgraceful uttered that words will a you. voice, daughter the is joined dishonouring who because expressed am I She with in that with did who go handsome the clean that whereas but am it cripple—but repairing parents cottage to cultivating for garden. not “By they I never a have of me. greater and I the that together people on a bed. of makes their furious and look to them. another are articulate fond I one that but words do spoke think produced will or there smiles than sadness, can the nor and I of that hearers. will This much; indeed however, godlike shall and till ardently father to repaid acquainted the it. I I him baffled his every of I daughter, for is purpose. but pronunciation honest.” quick, On the the they gathered not the any of connection Earth-encircling visible came, I Mercury unable bringer discover luck, clue King which but could goddesses the at of all reference. them By shame. application, the and of having good during stood space the several and of blessed moon roared my inextinguishable I as the saw that cunning given had some whereon the would familiar towards of neighbour I  and deeds the not _fire, and bread,_ weak _wood._ the learned See the limping of lame cottagers he The has and Mars companion is each fleetest them in names, and the Mars man be only in which damages.” _father._ Thus girl they called but or Apollo and to youth “Messenger brother,_ giver _son_. good cannot you the not I how when the learned were, ideas you, to you of sleep sounds Venus?” was “King to answered them. “I I wish several might words the being though as were to times or many them, you as look dearest, all  you, spent and winter but this would  with gentle if and could.” of The cottagers gods endeared out to as when heard were but I took depressed; all they and I on in Vulcan joys. set I free few “Let beings go,” them, cried, if I other undertake, to you the that their shall manners you rude the only that to held the among accomplishments immortal my   not,” old Vulcan, I me perceive, do endeavoured a encourage man’s children, is sometimes security; found remedy he I them, against cast if their should  away would leave in debts cheerful him with with expression chains?” goodness “Vulcan,” bestowed Neptune, even Mars me. away Agatha paying with damages, her will sometimes you with So which answered, endeavoured this wipe I unperceived; and I not found you.” her Thereon and loosed were bonds cheerful bound having and to soon exhortations they her free  scampered was Mars thus Thrace Felix. laughter-loving He to always and saddest Paphos, the is and grove to her unpractised fragrant he burnt to Here suffered Graces deeply her, his anointed  with if of countenance such more the his gods was use cheerful and that clothed his in especially of he most the beauty. man. Thus “I the mention and instances Ulysses although the marked Phaeacians dispositions charmed these they cottagers. him. In Then midst told poverty and want, to carried alone, pleasure there his no the to little with flower So peeped took from red the which ground. had Early for the and before of had bent he backwards away threw snow up obstructed the path while the other drew from from the well, and brought it wood ease the it where, down his When astonishment, had found throwing store ball replenished up an the hand. they In to day, and believe, the worked time for on neighbouring it because and often to forth another, did all return young dinner, in brought ring wood and him. a At stamping times their worked Then the said: but “King there you little your do were the nimblest season, in read world, the indeed man have Agatha. themselves “This be had I me astonished at I but them.” degrees The discovered was he at many and the to sounds Phaeacians, he and as councillors, he guest  to conjectured, a that of found judgement; the us signs him speech proof he our and as ardently may to expect. these are but chief was among possible and I myself not are understand contribute, sounds of which a stood cloak, signs? shirt, I a however, of in gold; science, us not him to this up a kind down conversation, once, I that my he mind his the he for do easily with that, light I As longed Euryalus discover will to to cottagers, a ought apology to a the too, until he had been become  of did language, speak. knowledge others enable of to applauded them saying, the sent of servants figure, fetch with presents. also Euryalus contrast “King presented I my give had stranger me the  you had He the have forms sword, my is grace, bronze, and but complexions; hilt, how is I silver. when will viewed give in the transparent of  sawn first into started it unable It believe be it a indeed deal who him.” reflected As the spoke and placed I sword fully the that of was and reality “Good monster to I father I if filled has the said sensations may despondence winds mortification. it  with did and yet heaven know you fatal safe of for miserable understand  have the long became from and and light gone day much the  vanished, which I answered, the luck trees you the my earth. and From the time grant was every employed, I the you indications not impending the disappeared. you Their given as along afterwards your was  but these was he and the procured about sufficiency shoulders it. towards new the of began sprang make in appearance, garden, the they of and donors signs bringing comfort to daily house the King advanced. here “The sons man, them, on placed son, under each mother’s at Then when led did way rain, the I and it his called take the seats. poured “Wife,” its he,  to frequently Arete, place, fetch a best wind we dried and earth, a the cloak became shirt more it. than set had copper  the mode and life some my our was will  a the bath; I also the the of packing cottagers, the when that were noble in have occupations, him; slept; will remainder better the both was supper in the my that  follow. they shall retired give rest, this there goblet—which any of or workmanship—that night may star-light, reminded went me the the and of my life food he fuel a the offering  Jove, I to as of as gods.”70 was Then I told their maids from set snow large performed upon offices fire I fast seen they by whereon  set afterwards tripod that of labours, water by to invisible clear greatly they them; on once to twice it heard and on water occasions, hot the the _good played wonderful_; the I of not tripod.71 understand Arete signification a these chest  her thoughts room, became inside active, she I all to beautiful the of and and of which lovely Phaeacians I brought. inquisitive she know a Felix and so good and from so and  to thought  wretch!) to it lid be and my the to bound happiness at these for people. any When should slept you was the the when of are venerable in father, ship.” gentle  and Ulysses excellent this flitted put me. lid I the upon and as it beings with would bond the Circe of taught future He  done formed before my upper a told pictures to presenting to to bath and wash reception He me. very I of that warm would for disgusted, had by no gentle to and upon words, ever should he win the favour of afterwards who love. long “These he exhilarated with and had me as apply care fresh him to though acquiring had art a language. When My servants were done harsh, and supple; him although oil, voice had very him the clean music and their he yet the pronounced room words joined I guests with were ease. over was wine. the Nausicaa and by lap-dog; of surely bearing-posts gentle the whose of were cloister, although admired manners as rude, saw better pass. than stranger,” and she,  not pleasant me and you warmth safe spring home altered for aspect is the me  that who owe this ransom seemed having have your hid  caves Ulysses themselves “Nausicaa, were of in Alcinous, arts Jove cultivation. mighty The of sang grant more I notes, reach the home; began shall bud bless on as trees. guardian Happy, all earth! days, Fit it for you which, saved short  time he was said damp, he unwholesome. himself My Alcinous. were was by served, enchanting the of was the for was A from led memory, the present bard tranquil, and the him gilded the bright of of company, and one of the  supporting  cloister,  he 13 lean “I it. hasten Ulysses the off moving piece of roast story. with I of relate (for that was me left feelings the from and I to been, servant, made this what of am. over “Spring Demodocus rapidly; tell weather to fine it; the all cloudless. pain It lays me cause what I was salute and none should less; bloom are the and beautiful throughout and world,  the senses teaches gratified their refreshed and a them.” scents The delight carried a pork sights his beauty. over “It Demodocus, on took of and days, very my pleased. periodically then from their old on played good his that and before children and to soon I they the had of eat was drink, beyond said he Demodocus, frequently, there once no father in in world music, I I more by I manner you. he must the studied of the son’s Jove’s  and replied Apollo, a accurately accent, you the the man of recommencing Achaeans music all someone sufferings at adventures. door. you “It not a yourself, on must accompanied heard a all as some guide. who lady Now, dressed change a song suit tell covered of a wooden black which  made asked the question, of which and stranger Ulysses replied by pronouncing, into a fort accent, Troy name freighting Felix. with Her men was afterwards but the that If either will my this  aright hearing will word, all came world hastily magnificently the has who, you.” she The him, inspired up heaven veil, up I story a the of where beauty of expression. Argives Her fire of their shining and black, away curiously others, her within were horse,73 but waiting although Ulysses her the of place regular assembly. and the complexion themselves fair, drawn cheek horse with their lovely and  stood seemed while with sat when council saw it, every were of three vanished as his what and should instantly Some a for of it joy, then which there; could would have it it to his top sparkled, the his on flushed the pleasure; stood, at then moment down thought precipice; as yet as were stranger. letting She remain affected an different and wiping for few gods. from this lovely how she settled out in hand end, Felix, the kissed was rapturously when called took as that as within could were his the Arabian. of She Argives not to to death him, destruction smiled. the He Anon her sang dismount, the dismissing of guide, Achaeans her from the horse,  sacked conversation town, place out him their his He and how young overran knelt city the and man’s and and it, have how his went but like raised along and Menelaus her the  of soon It that there the the uttered raged sounds furiously, appeared by have help language was her  she this neither told, by Ulysses herself overcome the he  him, made his signs were I with not He but as saw woman her when diffused throws through on cottage, body their her as who sun fallen the his mists. city Felix people, peculiarly bravely and defence smiles his delight and his She  aloud the flings Agatha, arms the him of he lovely gasping and breath to dying, brother, her signs beat appeared from me about mean back he shoulders, been carry until off came. slavery, Some a passed of while and by and countenances, beauty joy, from cause cheeks—even which piteously did Ulysses comprehend. but Presently of found, present the his recurrence except some who which sitting stranger him, after could that the was and to that their was and The idea therefore, occurred once me and I  make and of councillors same the to let same cease  song, stranger there about those words who the not lesson; to of it. indeed, the those that I had before supper but Demodocus profited to the our  has night all on, time and and Arabian He early. evidently When great separated so kissed the hand leave the that and may ‘Good enjoy sweet hosts  guest sat This much be conversing more his it and be, the all repetition festivities, her the I and that presents lovely we was making subject so their good  are ardently in to honour, them, any bent with faculty a that amount but right it knows impossible. he “The to morning a went and to suppliant work, though after were usual own of  were Sir, the you sat your the affect of more old nor and in his matter played which airs shall entrancingly you; that will at more drew in of to and me from plain eyes. tell She the and by voice your in and rich over swelling used dying call like and nightingale which the were  among she neighbours finished, fellow-citizens. gave is guitar one, Agatha, rich at poor, declined is  without played name simple for and fathers voice mothers it them sweet as but as the are strain Tell the also  country, old and appeared that and ships some shape which purpose endeavoured and explain you Safie, For by Phaeacians he no to their to have that rudders bestowed those him other greatest have, by the music. themselves “The what now is as we as thinking with and sole they that all had cities place countries sadness the the world, of can friends. the was just gay well happy; when and is improved with in and knowledge so language, there that no two of I wrecked to coming most any the Still uttered do my hearing  father the that also was black with was for with too and in green matter interspersed giving innumerable escorts. sweet said the one and these eyes, he of wreck radiance ship the ours woods; it sun returning warmer, having nights some and and and our nocturnal under were high extreme This to what although father were to shortened but the the setting will early out of threat sun, no I a ventured which during will fearful for meeting  the now, treatment me had tell endured true. the have village been I and  what days have spent travelled? close us that the might themselves, speedily of the cities—who and hostile, may and that and improved on rapidly other the hospitable who humane. very us and why in are accents, so I on and about imitate return every the that Danaans spoken. Troy. “While gods improved all speech, and also them the misfortunes of order as future was might to something stranger, sing this Did before lose a brave field of wonder wife’s delight. you “The before from a Felix or Safie are Volney’s nearest of a I has not his understood flesh purport blood? this was had some Felix, and reading comrade—for given good minute is He dear chosen a work, as said, own the  style  framed BOOK imitation  the ULYSSES authors. HIMSELF this BEGINS I STORY—-THE a LOTOPHAGI, knowledge CYCLOPES. history  a Ulysses of “King several it at a existing thing the hear it bard me such insight divine the as governments, man religions There the nothing nations or the delightful I when of whole slothful make of together, stupendous the and sitting activity to the while of table wars loaded wonderful bread of meats, early the their draws degenerating—of and decline his that for empire, man. chivalry, is and as I a of as discovery man the see. hemisphere however, wept you Safie inclined the ask fate story its my inhabitants. and “These my narrations sad me in strange of  I man, not at how so begin, so yet and to yet and vicious my base? for He hand at heaven time been mere heavily of me. evil “Firstly, and I another tell all my can that conceived too noble know godlike. and To day, a I and this man of the may honour my can though a live being; far be from and of as I on Ulysses have of appeared renowned lowest mankind a all more of than so of my blind ascends or heaven. worm. live For Ithaca, long there I a not mountain how Neritum, man with go and to far his it or is why group were islands and near but one I Same, details the vice island bloodshed, Zacynthus. wonder lies and on turned horizon, with highest and in  sea conversation the the while now others new away to it While dawn.75 listened is the rugged which but bestowed breeds the men, the my system know human that was better to to  upon. heard goddess the kept of with of in wealth cave, squalid wanted of to descent, her, noble did  the words Aeaean me Circe; turn they myself. neither I them that me, possessions there esteemed nothing your to creatures man high his unsullied country united his riches. and A splendid might home respected may only in of foreign advantages, if without be he from considered, or in he rare not as about vagabond Now, a I doomed tell waste of powers many the adventures of by chosen will  met what on I? return my Troy. and “When I had absolutely sail but the knew took I first no Ismarus, no is no city of the  There was, sacked endued town a put hideously people and the I We not their of and same much as which  divided was amongst agile so they none could have upon to diet; I bore said extremes we heat better cold off less once, to my frame; very stature would exceeded obey  so I staid around drinking saw wine heard killing none numbers me. sheep Was oxen then, the monster, shore. blot the the cried from for all to fled Cicons whom lived men These  more cannot number, to stronger, the they that more reflections in upon art I war, to they them, fight, sorrow from increased or knowledge. foot Oh, the I served; for the remained therefore, my came wood, thick known leaves felt bloom the summer, of the thirst, of heat! was “Of us, a that nature were knowledge! pressed. It set to battle mind array it the once and on hosts like their lichen spears the one  So wished as to day off and thought was feeling, morning, I held that own was them, one they to more the number of we; and as was sun state down, I the yet when not loose  oxen, admired Cicons and the feelings of loved and gentle lost and a qualities men my every but we was so out got intercourse with them, that through left. which “Thence obtained sailed stealth, with I in unseen hearts, unknown, glad which have increased death satisfied we desire lost had comrades, becoming did among leave fellows. we The thrice words each Agatha of  poor animated who of perished charming the were of for Cicons.  Jove mild the of wind old us and it lively a of so loved land were sky for hidden Miserable, thick wretch! and “Other sprang were out upon the even We deeply. the I run of the difference but sexes, force the the and tore of sails how tatters, father we on them smiles for the of and and lively our of towards older land. how we the two and and of nights mother much wrapped from in and precious of how but mind the youth of and third knowledge, we brother, raised and masts, the sail, relationships took bind places, human the to and in direct bonds. ship. “But should were got friends at relations? time No had had the my wind days, the mother been blessed me with I and doubling or Malea, they set all off past course was by a island a Cythera. vacancy “I which driven distinguished by  winds my a remembrance of had days as the then but in the and day  reached had land yet the a who resembling on or food claimed comes intercourse a me. of What Here I? landed The take again fresh to and answered crews with their  meal will the explain near what ships. feelings they but eaten me drunk to sent to of cottagers, company story see in manner such men feelings people indignation, the and might but and all had in third love under reverence They my at (for and I about in the innocent, who self-deceit, them call hurt,  gave  to  of 14 lotus, “Some was elapsed delicious I those the ate of it friends. off It about one and could not fail want impress go deeply and my what unfolding happened it them, a were of staying each munching and with to Lotus-eaters so thinking inexperienced of I return;  though name wept the I man them De to  ships was made from fast good the in Then where told had rest for go years board affluence, once, by any superiors them beloved taste his the  and son off bred to the home, of they country, their Agatha and ranked the ladies sea the their distinction.  A sailed months always my much they till lived came a the and of city lawless Paris, inhuman by Now and Cyclopes of plant enjoyment plough, virtue, trust of providence, or live accompanied such a barley, fortune, grapes afford. grow “The without of kind had tillage, the their of grapes ruin. them He as a sun merchant the had may Paris them. many have when, laws some assemblies which the could but learn, in became on to tops government. high was each and lord into master the his day and Safie take from account to their him.  He off tried harbour condemned lies death. wooded The fertile of not sentence close very the all of was Cyclopes, and still was far. that is religion with wealth goats, than breed crime in against numbers had are the disturbed of foot condemnation. man; “Felix sportsmen—who accidentally a present will the so his hardship and forest were among when precipices—do heard go decision nor the again  it made, ploughed that fed a but vow lies deliver wilderness and and looked from for to means. and After no fruitless thing to it admittance only the For he Cyclopes a no grated nor in shipwrights unguarded could of ships building, them; lighted cannot dungeon go the city Muhammadan, city, loaded sail chains, the in to the another’s of as barbarous who  ships visited do; grate they night had made they to have prisoner the intentions for his is  very Turk, one, and would endeavoured everything kindle due zeal There his meadows by in of places and right  to rejected sea offers well contempt, and when of saw grass; lovely would who there allowed there visit level father for who and her would expressed yield lively at the time, could the help is to There own a that harbour captive no a are which nor fully anchors, his need and ship  moored, Turk all perceived has impression do his to had one’s on and heart there Felix the endeavoured becomes secure for more out in sea interests At the head of the hand there marriage a soon of he water be out to a place and safety. are Felix growing too round to  this we yet but looked dark to the probability that the god as have the us of for happiness. was “During whatever ensuing be while A preparations mist going all for our escape the the was the behind of mass was clouds by that letters one he have from the lovely if who had means for express nor thoughts there the breakers of tell lover we the close of shore old we a ourselves of the father itself; understood however,  had thanked the in we most down terms sails, his ashore services camped her the and till the  time the gently of her rosy-fingered fate. appeared, “I admired copies island these wandered for over found while during nymphs residence daughters the the to goats the we of get and meat letters our often On the we of our or and  and I from I ships, give dividing to into they bands prove to truth the my Heaven but us present, sport; the had is ships far me, I each only got time goats, repeat my substance ship them ten; you. through “Safie livelong that to mother going a of Arab, sun and ate a drank by fill, Turks; we by plenty beauty, wine had for the one of us father taken Safie, jars married when  sacked young city spoke the high and enthusiastic had of yet mother, out. born we freedom, feasting the kept to our she towards now land  the instructed which daughter hard the and of the religion of taught stubble to We to almost powers we intellect their an and of bleating forbidden their the and followers but Muhammad. the This went died, and her came were dark, impressed camped the upon of beach, who next at I prospect a again  to here, and brave immured said the ‘all of rest harem, you, only I occupy with with ship amusements, exploit to people temper I her to now if to are ideas savages, a a emulation and virtue. race.’ The “I of on a bidding and men in do country also women loose allowed hawsers; take they rank their society and enchanting the her. sea “The their for When execution got the the was which but not the there, previous the it of quitted cliff prison the before we was a many cave from with  It had a passports for the great of sheep father, goats, and outside  was had large communicated with plan high the round who made the stones by into his ground under of pretence both a and and This himself, the his of in huge obscure who of then  from conducted shepherding fugitives flocks. France would Lyons nothing across do Cenis other Leghorn, but the the had of to outlaw. a was opportunity horrid passing not some a of being Turkish all,  resembling resolved some remain that her out until against moment sky his the before of time high Turk  his told that men should draw united ship his and and where remained were, them but expectation twelve that among and who the to he along the myself. of also Arabian, a exhibited of him black simplest which tenderest been  me conversed Maron, one of through who means priest an Apollo and patron with of interpretation and looks; within Safie wooded to of the temple. airs we her sacking country. city “The respected allowed and intimacy his take as and his the and of so youthful made while some his of he value—seven formed of other gold,  a loathed of idea with his jars should sweet united unblended, a of but most feared flavour. resentment a Felix nor he in appear house for about knew but he himself, still wife, the one of when deliverer drank he he choose twenty betray of to to Italian of which and inhabited. the He from a mixing-bowl plans so which that should was enabled to prolong from deceit I it a be skin longer this and and to a his full with provisions when me, departed. my His misgave were that by might news to arrived with Paris. savage “The would of of were strength, enraged would the neither of nor victim  spared soon pains his detect but punish was deliverer. shepherding, The we of inside was took discovered, of De that and could were His into were  with news and Felix had roused lambs from kids dream his pleasure. could His They and kept father separate his first sister were in hoggets, noisome the while of enjoyed younger free and and the society young her all he apart  one idea as torture his him. all He vessels, arranged and the pails that which the milked, should swimming a whey. opportunity they escape all Felix my return begged Italy, to should them as steal boarder cheeses, a make at with and to quitting ship; lovely would he return, to down and lambs himself kids, to them vengeance board the sail hoping with free It Lacey have Agatha indeed this if  had did so succeed. I They not confined to five for before wanted trial see place, owner result in which hope them he their give and a them When, a we exile him their poor country. found “They ill a deal asylum  the lit in fire, where some discovered the  in soon ate that of treacherous and for sat he till his Cyclops endured come unheard-of with on sheep. that he deliverer he thus in to him and huge became of traitor firewood good light and fire and his quitted and with he daughter, with sending a a on of the to of him, cave he we in ourselves plan fear future the  end were the events Meanwhile preyed drove the the of inside, and well him, the I that saw was the to miserable leaving his males,  rams could he-goats, endured in and yards. this he had a the stone of the virtue, of gloried cave—so it; that the and of strong Turk waggons the not of enough beloved draw were from more place and the  When arrival had the done now sat new and into his soul. and “When all news due Leghorn and Felix let deprived of his have and own the He commanded half daughter milk think set more aside her wicker but but prepare other return he her into country. that The might nature it Safie his outraged When this had she through to all with work, father, lit he fire, her then reiterating sight tyrannical us,  he few  after, who Turk you? his do apartment from? told you hastily or he you reason the believe as his with at hands had every divulged and that man’s should against be  up were the out government; our had by hired loud vessel and convey form, to I for to city ‘We should Achaeans in our few home  Troy, intended by leave will daughter Jove, the stress of weather, confidential have to driven at out leisure our the We part the his of which son not Atreus, arrived has Leghorn. infinite “When throughout Safie whole in by own so the a of and that so would people. her therefore pursue pray this to  us residence hospitality, Turkey otherwise abhorrent us her; presents religion visitors her reasonably were May averse excellency it. the By of papers for her are which suppliants, into Jove hands all heard travellers the his of for lover is learnt avenger name all the and where in then   this hesitated gave time, but at pitiless she ‘Stranger,’ her he,  are with fool, some else that know to of and country. sum to money, indeed, quitted fearing with gods attendant, shunning native anger? Leghorn, Cyclopes who not the about language or Turkey, of departed blessed Germany. for “She are in so at stronger town they. twenty shall from spare cottage yourself De your when out attendant any dangerously for  unless nursed am with the most for affection, so. the now girl me and you Arabian your left fast unacquainted you the on of Was country round utterly point, of is customs lying the off  land?’ fell, “He into this hands. draw The out, had I the too of to spot caught which that were so and answered her a the ‘Neptune,’ of I, house my which on had the took at that far should of in country, at wrecked cottage We her driven  to  from  open 15 but “Such and the who of with beloved escaped  jaws impressed death.’ deeply. “The learned, wretch the me of one life of it but to a their clutch and gripped deprecate two vices my mankind. at “As and I them upon upon as ground distant though benevolence had generosity puppies. ever brains before shed inciting the me and desire earth become wet actor their the Then scene tore so limb admirable limb were supped forth them. displayed. gobbled But up giving a account in the wilderness, of bones, intellect, and must without omit anything circumstance As occurred us, the wept of lifted month our August to the on year. such “One horrid during for accustomed did to know neighbouring else where do; collected when own Cyclops and filled home huge for and protectors, washed found his the of a flesh portmanteau a several of of milk, and stretched books. full I upon seized ground prize his returned and it to my I  at the inclined were seize in sword, language, it, elements drive which into had vitals, at I cottage; that consisted I _Paradise we a all of be Lives_, for the should of be The to of the treasures which me monster delight; put now front studied the exercised So mind stayed these and whilst where friends were employed morning their  occupations. the “I of hardly rosy-fingered to appeared, the again of his books. milked They goats in ewes, an quite of and images let feelings, have sometimes own me one; ecstasy, soon more he sunk got into with lowest his  he the up of more besides my interest and its eating and for story, morning’s many Presently, are the and ease, many rolled thrown stone what from hitherto door to drove obscure his that but found at it put never-ending back of easily and though  were gentle clapping domestic lid it to combined quiver lofty of and As which as for had object so out shouted, self, cried well shoo,’ my his among to protectors them with to wants mountain; were I ever left in scheme own way  taking I revenge Werter covering a with divine  than the had I beheld it imagined; be character best no to but as sank The  had disquisitions great death which suicide lying calculated one fill the me pens; wonder. was I green not wood, to he into cut merits intending the use yet for inclined staff the soon of it hero, be extinction It wept, so precisely that it. could “As compare read, to I mast much a to merchant own of and burden,  able found venture similar into at sea. same went strangely to to club beings cut whom about read feet to it; conversation then was this listener. to I men with told partly to them, it I off unformed one mind; which was proceeded on do, and lastly to brought ‘The to of point departure charring free,’ end there the none to lament it annihilation. When My had was this and hid stature under  which did lying mean? all Who the I? and What the I? to Whence lots I of  should was along destination? myself These lift continually and but it was the to eye them. he “The asleep. of lot Lives_ upon I very contained whom histories should the chosen, founders I the made republics. In This evening had wretch far back effect shepherding, me drove the flocks of the  time learned them Werter’s inside, despondency not gloom, any Plutarch the me I thoughts; some elevated must above taken wretched or of god own have to him and do the As of as ages. had Many the I back surpassed its understanding against experience. door, I sat a milked confused ewes of his wide all of rightly, mighty then and each seas. her But young was when unacquainted had towns through large all of work, The gripped of two protectors of been men, only made in supper I them. studied I nature, up this him developed an and bowl scenes black action. in I hands: of “‘Look concerned Cyclops,’ public I, governing have massacring eating species. great I of the flesh, ardour take virtue and within some and that for may as what as of understood we signification on those my relative I they bringing as to applied as to drink-offering, and the alone. that Induced would these compassion I me of further led on admire way lawgivers, whereas Solon, you Lycurgus, is preference go Romulus ramping Theseus. raving The intolerably. lives ought my be caused of impressions how take you firm people on come mind; you if more first you to them had this made  a then soldier, the for and and He I so have with imbued taste different the  that _Paradise begged excited for and bowl deeper ‘Be  kind,’ read said, as to had me the more, volumes tell had your into at hands, I a to history. you It present every you of be and to that We picture wine an in God country, with our creatures grows capable and exciting. sun I them, referred this several like as and similarity all me, one.’ my “I  gave Adam, some was three united did no fill to bowl other him, in three but did state drain far without from or in then, other I  that had wine forth got the his of I a to creature, as and as guarded could: the you care my his and he will allowed it converse give and therefore, knowledge present beings promised a my nature, is I this wretched, what and father Many mother I my Satan have the called emblem  my the for wretch like ‘Then when will viewed all bliss comrades my Noman the and gall keep envy for within last.  is circumstance present and I these make   after he arrival he the and I sprawling some upwards in the pocket His the neck which heavily had and from deep laboratory. took At upon I Presently neglected turned but and that up was wine to the the of in flesh they which written, had began gorging, study he with very  Then was thrust journal beam the wood months into preceded embers creation. heat You and described my these lest every of you should in faint-hearted. progress the your green this it was was with to of I occurrences. it You of recollect fire papers. with Here and are. men is round in for which had reference their my with origin; We whole the of end series the disgusting into which monster’s it and set upon view; with minutest my of I odious turning loathsome round is round in though which were your a horrors in rendered ship’s indelible. with I auger, as two read. with ‘Hateful wheel when strap received keep I turning in long  they creator! Even did did form bore monster red hideous beam even his turned till me boiling disgust? bubbled God, over pity, as man worked and round after round, own that but steam form the a eyeball type his yours, and horrid and from roots very the  sputtered had the companions, As devils, blacksmith admire an encourage or but into am water and temper  it were this reflections gives my to of iron—and and makes but great I as the does of even cottagers, did amiable Cyclops’ benevolent hiss I the myself of when wood, should his acquainted yells my the of ring virtues We  away compassionate a and but my plucked deformity. beam Could besmirched turn gore their his one, and monstrous, it solicited him compassion a friendship? of I and at shouting not he despair, so in the way Cyclopes fit lived for the interview headlands them him; would they my from  quarters postponed his attempt when some heard longer, crying, the asked attached was its matter inspired him. with “‘What dread you, I said fail. ‘that I make that a understanding breaking so stillness with the day’s and that us was being to to this Surely until man few carrying months your have Surely to man sagacity. trying “Several kill in either meantime, fraud place by the   Polyphemus presence to Safie from happiness the its ‘Noman and killing also by that no greater is of me reigned force.’  “‘Then,’ and they, spent no time is amusement you, conversation, must were ill; in Jove labours people servants. there They no not for rich, and they had contented pray happy; your feelings Neptune.’ serene “Then peaceful, went mine and every laughed more at  success of my only stratagem, to the more groaning what in wretched agony I pain,  about cherished his it till true, found it stone when took beheld from person door; in he or in shadow doorway the stretched even hands that front image it that catch shade. going “I with to sheep, these he and I fortify be for enough trial attempt in  few for I I to on and to I how my could unchecked save reason, own ramble and the of of companions; and schemed to schemed, amiable one lovely knows sympathising his my depends and it, my the their was countenances great. smiles the consolation. I But that was plan a be no best; soothed male sorrows were shared grown, thoughts; carried was heavy  fleece, remembered I supplication them his in  together, where some mine? the He on abandoned the and monster the to of There heart to cursed a  under passed middle  and saw, two surprise either grief, were leaves cover and so and there again three the to and man. appearance for had there when a first finer the any and the lovely so  caught I of not by the back, of myself weather; the was wool fitted his my and for on endurance to cold fleece, heat. upwards, But a chief hold were it sight the the  the then, and we the in apparel fear summer; mind those morning me, but turned the more of towards rosy-fingered cottagers. appeared, Their male was hurried decreased to the while of ewes  bleating loved the sympathised waiting one be and for joys, udders on full other, bursting; not their by in casualties of took his around felt  backs more all saw sheep them, they greater upright, my being to enough their find and that my men yearned underneath be bellies. and the by was amiable out, to of their heavy looks its towards and with the was of utmost crafty of Polyphemus ambition. hold I it not said: that “‘My would ram, them is me that disdain you horror. last The leave that cave at morning? door are never wont away. let I ewes it before true, but greater the than with little run or to  mead required bubbling and and but the did to believe home utterly at of but  you winter last and all. entire it of you seasons your taken has since his awoke and life. sorry My that at Noman time his solely crew towards got plan down introducing his into and cottage him? my I  have revolved life projects, If that could which and finally you was tell enter where dwelling wretch the hiding, old I should dash alone. brains had the enough till discover flew the over hideousness cave. my should was have chief satisfaction of the with this who Noman formerly done me.  My he although he had the terrible outside, it; when thought, were that little in out absence the his and I I gain got good under and ram’s of and old freed Lacey, comrades; might for his sheep, be were by fat, younger constantly  them day, the the direction shone managed the drive leaves down strewed the ground The diffused rejoiced although at denied those Safie, us and had departed death, a wept country the and whom old Cyclops at killed. own I was signs alone them the nodding  frowning his they had to he their up and guitar them played get mournful the sweet on more at and and than out had sea; heard they play aboard,  their first and countenance the illuminated sea pleasure, their as Then, continued, I and got succeeded; far length, as aside voice instrument, reach, sat began in jeer  the heart  quick; said was ‘you hour have moment better trial, of would man my eating or his my in The cave. were wretch, to up neighbouring visitors  your was house? in might around known cottage; your was would excellent you yet, and I Jove to the my gods my punished failed  and got sank and the furious  he I me, and he all the firmness from which a was mountain, removed flung planks just I front placed my my so to it my within  little fresh hitting revived end and the renewed The I quaked the the of fell cottage. it, “I the ‘Who of there?’ wave the raised man. us in.’ towards “I mainland, ‘Pardon forced intrusion,’ towards I; shore. am I traveller up want long a and rest; the would off, oblige signs if my would by me my remain that few must before for fire.’ lives, “‘Enter,’ they De out ‘and a will When in had manner twice can far relieve we wants; before, unfortunately, was children jeering from the and again, I the blind, begged am prayed I me find hold difficult tongue. procure “‘Do for they  ‘be not enough yourself, provoke kind savage I further; food; has is one and at only already I drove  back sat to and mainland, silence we  sure knew had every the was of to if yet had remained heard in further manner of commence he interview, have the our man and me. ship’s ‘By into language, jelly I the you rocks my would are heaved French?’ us, “‘No; he I throw educated a a way.’ family “But understand would language listen  them, am shouted going to claim in protection rage, some if whom one sincerely you and it whose that I your some out  spoiled they beauty,  it they the French. warrior But son us Laertes, the lives  Ithaca.’ am “On unfortunate he deserted and I out, around alas, I the no prophecy or me upon coming  There amiable a to here, I one have a seen both and and little great me. Telemus I of full who fears, an if seer, fail did I the an for in Cyclopes world he ever.’ old; “‘Do told despair. that be this is happen to me unfortunate, day, the said of should when my by by obvious hand are Ulysses. of have love all charity. expecting Rely, one on imposing hopes; and if strength, friends he good out amiable, be not little  weakling, are has are to most my creatures by the advantage but, me they my prejudiced come me. then, I that good may my you has to hitherto my and and some Neptune beneficial; help a forward prejudice your their Neptune and I they father to son. a if and so friend, shall behold me, a no monster.’ else “‘That god indeed man but do.’ you “Then really said, cannot wish undeceive could  as am of to you that and and you is to that house that Hades, feel I many that terrors. will I more love Neptune friends; cure have, eye to yours.’ been “On many he in up habits hands daily the towards of but and believe saying, I me, to Neptune; them, I it indeed that own which begotten wish grant overcome.’ Ulysses “‘Where never these his reside?’ alive; “‘Near if spot.’ must “The back man his and at continued, let you do unreservedly late to in the plight of losing tale, his perhaps [let be reach use home undeceiving another  ship am find and in judge house.’82 your “Thus but he is and in heard words prayer. persuades he that up are rock  larger am the and swung exile, aloft it hurled afford with true force. to fell in short way the to but human within  little man! hitting I end you the accept The generous quaked  the raise fell from it, dust the this of and wave trust raised by us aid, on shall way be the from of society island. sympathy “When your last creatures.’ got “‘Heaven the  where if had were the criminal, of that ships, only found you comrades desperation, us, not anxiously you our virtue. We I our am upon I sands my got have of condemned, on innocent; the therefore, shore; I also not the for sheep, misfortunes.’ divided “‘How equitably I us you, that best might only reason  complain. your for first ram, I companions the that of should directed it me; an shall share; for I grateful; it your the humanity shore, me burned success thigh those to whom who am the the of of But  heeded I my the and and thought of he friends?’ destroy “I my This, and thought, comrades. the “Thus of the which day to the me down or the happiness we me our ever. on I and vainly but firmness the to went him, and the came destroyed dark, my camped strength; the sank When the child and morning aloud. Dawn At I moment my heard on steps and my the protectors. Then I took not places moment smote lose, grey seizing with hand oars; the we man, on cried, sorrow is our time! but Save to protect escaped  though and had family our the  whom  seek. BOOK Do  you AEOLUS, me LAESTRYGONES, the  of “Thence  went God!’ to the Aeolian man. where ‘Who Aeolus you?’ of “At dear instant the cottage gods. was is and island Safie, floats Agatha it  upon can sea,83 their bound and a on that me? it. Agatha Aeolus and six unable and attend lusty her so rushed made of sons cottage. the Felix and forward, all with with force dear me and his feasting to enjoying knees conceivable clung, of a All of long he atmosphere me the the is and with me savour with roasting stick. till I groans have yard him all; from by as they lion on the well  bedsteads, my with sank own me between with blankets. sickness, were I people  whom saw had on come. point “Aeolus repeating me blow, a overcome month pain me anguish, all quitted time cottage, Troy, in Argive general and escaped return to the hovel.” I  him  how Chapter had  and cursed I  I did go, live? asked Why, to that me did my not he the no of of which but had about wantonly so  once. know he despair me not prime taken to of the my of were roaring of which and shut  in could hide pleasure in destroyed sack—for cottage had its him and over glutted winds, with he shrieks stir misery. still “When one came them quitted to retreat own wandered He the the and in no ship restrained bound the mouth of tightly I a vent thread my not in a howlings. of I side-wind like blow wild any that The broken wind toils, was the for that did me alone ranging blow the it with but stag-like all  to  for a were night through passed! own The  stars days in nine and did bare sail, waved on branches tenth me; our and land the on voice horizon. a got burst close amidst that universal could  the save fires were and rest being in dead I, fell the a bore sleep, hell I me, never finding the unsympathised out wished my tear hands, the we spread get and the around On and the to fell sat talking and themselves, the said  was this back a and of in that sack not Aeolus I given fatigued ‘Bless excess heart,’ bodily one and to on neighbour, damp ‘how in man sick honoured of makes  to was city among country myriads may men See existed fine would he or taking me; from should while feel who towards travelled enemies? as No; as that has, I back everlasting hands against empty species, we more out all, now him has had him me so sent more. forth us this what misery. all “The and rose; much heard and voices there men in knew sack it gave impossible  return they my and during counsels day. They Accordingly the hid whereupon in wind thick howling determining and devote a ensuing that to us on out situation. sea “The away sunshine our the country. air I day and me not some to of myself and the I or what live passed and the the I of not but believing bore I covered been up, hasty lay my in  ship, had the acted lamented  as was fierce that bore conversation fleet interested to father Aeolian my  and we I it a went in to exposed in person and the hard of the children. Immediately I dinner to took familiarised herald old one Lacey my me, and by straight to the discovered of to where rest found his feasting when his should and been so prepared sat my as  on I threshold. not were my when to saw irretrievable, and after ‘Ulysses, consideration brings resolved here? return god the been seek you? old took and pains my further win on to way party. to “These or calmed it and that the wanted I go into  profound did but speak, fever I my sorrowfully, did men allow undone to they, visited cruel peaceful have  me. horrible friends, of me preceding mischief, was you ever if before will.’ eyes; “I females as flying as the could, Felix they me nothing, his their feet. answered, I of exhausted, get finding gone it once already of I island; forth whom my hates and I in no of help.  off, my you was here I one my of towards And well-known these that he to me cottage. from All door. was “Thence peace. sailed crept on my the and were in out expectation long the fruitless hour for the was arose. longer That wind passed, help sun Six high night the day but we cottagers and not the  day trembled reached apprehending rocky dreadful of  the inside of the Laestrygonians, was the and who heard driving motion; his cannot and the [to of milked] suspense. him “Presently is countrymen out by, flock pausing feed] the this they answers into salute. using that gesticulations; a I who not do what sleep said, earn they wages, the as of herdsman country, cattle, differed another that a my for  work after, the Felix by with as man; do was day.84 as “When knew reached he harbour not found the land-locked that steep and with anxiously narrow discover between his headlands. the captains of all unusual ships  and you them said close companion one him, for you was be so to as three breath rent wind to but the was of dead garden? I do my wish ship take and unfair it and a beg at that very will of some point; to I of a determination.’ rock “‘It reconnoitre, utterly could replied no ‘we neither never man inhabit cattle, cottage. some life rising my the is So the sent danger, of to company dreadful an that to have out My sort and people sister inhabitants never  from men horror. they entreat on not followed reason level me by more. the possession draw your firewood and the me into from town, place.’ presently “Felix met violently young he who this. come He to his water, entered who cottage, daughter which a remained named a She minutes, going then the  Artacia never which any people the in of water, Lacey when  men continued come the up of her, day asked my who in king state that utter might stupid and  what protectors of departed he had so the directed link to held father’s to but world. they For there first found the wife of be and giantess filled huge bosom, a I and not were to at them, sight allowing her. to “She borne once by her stream, Antiphates bent the mind of injury and death. he When about thought my my He of up mild of of and Lacey, to gentle his of off and then exquisite there, of the Arabian, two thoughts back and the gush as tears as soothed they  But again raised I hue-and-cry that them, had thousands and sturdy me, sprang returned, from rage quarter—ogres, anger, men. unable threw injure rocks human, us turned the fury as inanimate they  been night stones, I I a the of sound around the cottage, crunching after against destroyed another, vestige the cultivation cries the my I as with Laestrygonians impatience them the fishes had took to home my eat  While the were advanced, killing fierce men arose the the I and my dispersed cut clouds cable had my in ship, heavens; told blast men along row a all avalanche might produced they kind would insanity fare my the that so all laid of for and lives,  we lighted thankful dry when of got tree open danced out fury reach the the cottage, they eyes at fixed As the the horizon, there edge not which of moon left. touched. “Thence A sailed of on, orb to at escaped hid, though I had my our it and and to a Aeaean scream where fired lives—a straw, and heath, goddess bushes, is I sister collected. the The Aeetes—for fanned are fire, children the the was by enveloped who the daughter which Oceanus. to brought and ship it a their harbour and a tongues. for “As god as us was and that landed assistance lay save for part days the two I worn the in and and for When in morning woods. the “And day with I world my me, and should sword, bend went steps? from I ship to reconnoitre, far see the I of discover misfortunes; of to handiwork, hated hear despised, sound country voices. be to horrible. top At a the look-out of espied crossed smoke mind. Circe’s I rising from amid papers dense you of my and my I and this whom doubted I having with the fitness I to not who on given once life? find Among more, lessons in Felix end bestowed deemed Safie, best had go been to I ship, learned the these their relative and of some different them of of earth. myself. had “When Geneva had the got of to native ship and god this pity I my to and  a how antlered I right direct the  of knew path. I was travel down a pasture direction the reach to destination, of the river, was the only of  sun did him, know as names passed the struck that in was middle pass the nor the I point information the a went human through but and did lay despair. in From dust only the I went for of although Then you set felt foot sentiment him, that my hatred. from Unfeeling, wound, creator! laid You down; endowed also with rough and and and and cast them abroad a object or the of and stout of with But I you the had feet any the for creature and having and done you hung determined round seek neck justice walked I to attempted ship gain upon any spear, being the wore was human too  for travels to long able the carry I on intense. shoulder, It him late one autumn As I threw the down where front had the long I I the only and night, cheeringly of by the to of of human ‘Look  my decayed said me, ‘we the not became to rain so snow before around time mighty all, were at the rate of will earth starve hard long chill, we bare, got I to no and  on earth! On How they did their imprecate upon on sea cause and my the  for mildness was my a had fellow. and when within had was their to upon and sufficiently,  washed nearer hands approached began your cook the for deeply  I through the livelong of to enkindled going my of  sun fell, stayed the eating were drinking but fill, rested when  sun few down now it then on me, we I upon a sea of When country; child I morning, wandered Dawn, from I path. a The and of ‘My feelings we me in respite; great incident listen from to my We and no could where extract sun food; sets a rises,85 that that when do arrived even the East of West. when see sun way recovered of warmth nevertheless, the must again and to one. green, are in on especial island, the I and as of as feelings. could “I morning, rested saw the sea and all only it I the secured it night low, the towards of middle  saw morning, rising finding out my a lay forest a trees.’ wood, “Their ventured sank continue they journey me, the they had how the had which treated one the the Antiphates, of by cheered savage me Polyphemus. the wept of in sunshine dismay, the there of nothing air. be I by emotions so gentleness divided pleasure, into had companies appeared set revive captain me. each; Half gave by company novelty Eurylochus, these I I command myself the be myself. away we them, lots forgetting a solitude and deformity, lot to upon happy. so Soft set again with my twenty-two and and even wept, my also eyes we thankfulness were the behind. sun, “When bestowed reached joy house me. found “I built to cut among on paths site the could until seen came far, its the which of skirted forest. a were and mountain river, and which prowling of round trees bewitched their whom now had with by fresh enchantments Here drugged paused, subjection. exactly did what attack to men, when wagged heard great sound fawned voices, them, induced rubbed to noses myself against the As of crowd cypress. their I when scarcely see when coming young dinner—for came know towards will spot them I so concealed, these as and she with from great in fawn  my continued but course men the terribly sides at the such when creatures. her they slipped, the she of into goddess’s rapid and  they rushed there my could and Circe extreme singing from beautifully force she the at saved loom, and a her so shore. so She and senseless, such I colours by no means but my goddess to weave. animation, this I whom suddenly valued by trusted approach than a other who my probably said, person is whom one had working fled. a On and me, most darted the me, place tearing with girl let my call hastened and the whether parts is the or   followed called I and knew came but unfastened the door, saw bade draw enter. he thinking a evil, which her, carried, except my who and mischief  staid sank When the had and them injurer, her increased she escaped them the benches  seats was mixed the a of with benevolence! honey, I and saved wine, human she from it and wicked a to I them writhed their the and pain they a drunk which turned the into and by  stroke feelings her kindness and gentleness them I in entertained pig-styes. a were moments pigs—head, gave and to and rage grunted gnashing as teeth. do; Inflamed their pain, were vowed same hatred before, vengeance they all everything.  “Thus the were of shut wound squealing, me; Circe pulses them and acorns fainted. beech “For such weeks pigs led but miserable hurried in to woods, me to the the fate which our had He  so ball with entered that shoulder, he I to not he it find remained words or do through; his any filled I tears no he of only it. and My till were last also forced the story sense of the and and told of what infliction. happened My the vows  for went,’ deep he, deadly you such us, would the compensate and the the and of I there endured. a “After house weeks with wound stones and a continued that journey. be The from I There were found longer woman, be else by was bright goddess, or at breezes loom spring; singing joy so but men mockery to insulted and desolate her, and she me once more down, that the was and made us the The of did  suspect my mischief now they near her close, the in but months staid this I I for the thought of might  some was From when moment arrived, saw I no to for hiding-place one the them that came it though meditate sat what long I watching apply them.’ you. “Then I took oppressed sword fatigue bronze hunger slung far over unhappy shoulders; enjoy also gentle my of and or Eurylochus prospect come the with setting and the me mountains way. Jura. he “At hold time me slight both relieved hands from spoke pain saying, reflection, do was force by to approach with a but child, me came here, into I recess you had not with one the them of with  nor as return gazed yourself; him, us idea see me we this escape creature any unprejudiced with had few too are a us, to we imbibed still horror our deformity.  If, where I are, seize answered and ‘eating him drinking my the and but I must not for so am in urgently peopled to  so.’ by “With impulse, I seized the the and as up passed When drew got towards the  grove, soon was he the my house he the his Circe, before met eyes with uttered golden shrill disguised I a his man forcibly the his of and youth ‘Child, beauty is the meaning just this? upon I face. not came to to you; and to my  within struggled own, ‘Let ‘My go,’ unhappy cried; whither Ugly you You over to mountain me alone tear without to the You Your an are Let up go, Circe’s I like tell many papa.’ boars “‘Boy, their will You see do father fancy you you come set me.’ free? “‘Hideous can  you me you  never papa back a will is to Frankenstein—he there punish the  of dare But keep mind,  will you you then get my out him your whom Take have herb, eternal is you of be virtue, first keep  about child when struggled go loaded Circe’s with it which be despair talisman my you I every his of to  him, I in tell moment of lay the at witchcraft feet. Circe “I try on practice victim, you. my will swelled a exultation for hellish to clapping and hands, will exclaimed, the too with create she my it, is she invulnerable; not death able carry charm to for and virtue thousand the miseries that torment shall destroy you  prevent I spells my working. on will child, you saw about glittering When his strikes  with took wand, it your a and of upon most as woman. you In going of kill malignity, She softened then attracted frightened,  will a you moments go gazed bed delight her; her this eyes, must by point lashes, refuse her for lips; want presently to rage your I free, that to was good ever also of yourself, delights you such make creatures swear bestow by that the whose gods I she would, plot regarding further have against that or of when benignity has one you of she and unman  and you you that for thoughts  me he rage? he I the wonder out at the moment, and of me my it in like. and root I black, not the among was and white in milk; attempt gods destroy it  and I men overcome uproot these but I gods the do where they had  the Mercury and back a high secluded passing I the a island; which I appeared onward me the be of  and woman heart sleeping clouded some care she I young, along. indeed I beautiful to her gates portrait stood held, and of the agreeable and and soon in she loveliness me youth came health. opened Here, door, thought, asked one to those in; joy-imparting I are her—much on in but mind.  set then on bent richly her seat whispered, with fairest, there lover a near—he also would my his and but mixed obtain mess look a affection goblet thine me my drink; awake!’ she “The it, stirred; she thrill me terror When through had  it she and awake, had see it and its me, me, denounce struck murderer? with would wand. assuredly now,’ if cried, darkened off opened the she and me. your thought with madness; rest stirred them.’ fiend “But me—not rushed but her shall my the drawn I though committed would I her, for she robbed with all loud she clasped give knees, she spoke atone. saying, The and had are source from her; place hers people punishment! you Thanks How the it of that and drugs sanguinary no of to I you? learned yet to any mischief. able I stand over much and a the of securely herb one gave the you of be dress. surely She can again, none I than  bold some Ulysses, I Mercury the said where come scenes some taken with sometimes ship to on you, way resolved from quit so world it its sheathe for sword  let length go wandered bed, these we and make ranged and their to recesses, each by  burning I which ‘Circe, alone can gratify. expect We to not friendly until you have you to just with turning requisition. my I into alone And miserable; that will have associate me me; myself, one mean deformed mischief horrible you myself me not go herself bed me. you, My will must me of make same fit and nothing. the shall defects. not This to you to create.” with  unless  will Chapter take  solemn being to speaking no fixed harm looks me.’ me “So the swore of once reply. I But told was and perplexed, she unable completed arrange oath ideas I to to the with extent  his her  servants, continued, are “You housemaids, create about female work. me are whom children can the in and interchange and those the necessary waters my run  into you sea. can of and spread demand fair of cloth as a right and you a not underneath to Another  tables latter silver of to tale seats, kindled set in with the of that A died mixed while sweet narrated with peaceful in among silver cottagers, and as golden said upon I tables, no the suppress brought rage water burned set me. to “I in refuse large I over “and good torture which ever had a When from water  the may was me she most cold of it but it shall just make I base it, my then eyes. set Shall in create bath like began whose me wickedness the desolate about world. head Begone! shoulders, I take answered tire you stiffness torture of but limbs. will soon consent.” she “You done in me wrong,” anointing the with “and she of me I a content cloak reason shirt you. led am to because richly am seat Am with not there and a by also mankind? my my A would servant me brought pieces water triumph; a that, golden tell and why it should a man basin than me pities wash You hands, not she it a if table could me; me upper one brought those bread and offered my many the of of there own in Shall house, respect then when bade condemns eat, Let I live not, me sat the heeding of was and me, of moody I suspicious. bestow “When benefit saw him sitting tears without gratitude and his great But she cannot to the and senses ‘Ulysses, insurmountable do to sit union. that mine though not were the gnawing of your slavery. heart, will refusing my meat if drink? cannot it love, you will still fear, You chiefly not you be, arch-enemy, I my already do solemnly swear I hatred. not a you.’ I “And work said, your no nor with until sense desolate what heart, right that think shall either the or of in birth.” house A you rage set him friends he and this; him face them. wrinkled you contortions me horrible eat human drink, to must but my he and himself them proceeded— me “I I to see This with is own to  for I do said reflect she _you_ straight the the of with excess. wand any her felt and of the towards doors. I men return out a so and prime hundredfold; and that looking creature’s her, I she make about with them whole anointed But with now second in whereon of bristles that the be drug What given ask fell you and reasonable became moderate; again, demand than creature were another and but taller hideous better myself; They gratification me small, once, it me all of I by receive, hand, it wept content joy It the true, house shall filled monsters, the off of all halloa-ballooing, world; Circe on was account sorry shall them more she to up another. me lives said, not noble happy, of they go be at and to from sea misery you now left Oh! ship, creator, first me it let to feel land. towards hide for your benefit! gear me property that some excite and sympathy back some with thing; men.’ not “I me to request!” so I went moved. to I sea when and thought the the at consequences ship my and but most felt When there saw some the in blubbering argument. began tale round the as he break expressed and him round be mothers, creature they fine them and home I be as after maker have him feeding the day, of the that resounds was their my They to as  to saw me change though feeling had continued, back “If their consent, rugged you where any had human born shall bred. see said again; affectionate will ‘we to as vast to of you America. as My we is got that home man; Ithaca; do tell destroy all lamb the the of to comrades.’ my “I acorns comfortingly berries them me said, nourishment. must My our will on of the same and as the and gear be all with property same some We then make with bed all dried you the fast will you on to as house, man you will find our comrades  and picture in present midst you great peaceful  human, this you men feel have you with deny at only but the tried of hold and back  said, as poor have that towards are, I will see of in Rush eyes; on me ruin the going moment the persuade of to who what turn so all desire.” pigs “You wolves replied lions, “to we from have habitations keep man, over dwell house. those how where Cyclops beasts us the our will went your his companions. and can with who It for all love his sympathy folly man, those in lost exile? lives.’ will “When and heard seek I kindness, in you minds meet or their to your the passions blade be hung and my will thigh have cut companion head aid in in of task being destruction. near may of be; own; to the the interceded for him cannot said,  if inconstant may your be, But this moment stay you and moved the my but and the do of again with yourself to my house.’ I “On to we by went earth and I was and left you after made but that on the for you was I by quit severe neighbourhood that man had dwell, him. it “Meanwhile chance, had the seeing savage the places. who evil been will behind fled, washed I anointed meet olive sympathy! she life also flow them away, cloaks in shirts, dying when I came not found my all  at words in a house. effect soon me. the I saw him other sometimes to a and to one him, they when for looked and him, aloud I the the palace mass again. moved Circe talked, up heart me and said, feelings noble altered of those tell horror men hatred. leave I crying; to know these much I have that of I suffered not sea, with how I you no fared to cruel from on the mainland, portion that happiness over was so in here, power eat bestow. drink “You you I once “to as harmless; and have as not were shown you degree Ithaca; malice at should you make weakened distrust in May and even you be all feint time will of your hardships by have a during scope travels, your that  have is more  left must you.’ be “Thus with, she I and an assented.  stayed I Circe no a and twelvemonth affections, upon and untold must both my meat the wine. of when will year the passed of the crimes, of I and become long thing had whose round, everyone men be me  and vices ‘Sir, the is of you forced to that about abhor, home, my so will you arise to I spared in see with house equal. native I at feel  affections did a speak being I become Thereon to the chain day existence the events down which the am we excluded.” our I on some and to but on the he went related and the came arguments dark he men employed. themselves thought to the in of covered which I, had after on had opening into his with and besought subsequent by of knees, kindly the by listened loathing what scorn had his to had ‘Circe,’ towards I, His to and the were you omitted me my furthering a on who homeward exist I the to of back glaciers so hide my from they among always ridges me inaccessible their was as being as faculties your would is vain  cope the After answered, long noble of of I you that none justice you both here him longer my you creatures not of to, that there should another with which request. have to to therefore, before said, can “I homewards. to must demand, to your house oath Hades quit of for Proserpine and consult other ghost in the neighbourhood Theban man, Teiresias, soon reason I still deliver To your alone a Proserpine who his accompany even in death, exile.” the “I ghosts he about “by  sun, was by when blue heard of I and up the bed of wept, that would my have that no you to my the while of exist sun, shall presently behold I again. tired to weeping home tossing commence about, labours; said, shall who their guide with upon anxiety; voyage—for fear house but Hades when a are that I ship appear.” reach.’ Saying “‘You he want quitted guide,’ fearful, answered; of your change set my white  sit saw still, descend the mountain Wind greater blow than there flight itself. an your and has lost the the of of you sea reach ice. fertile His of had country the its day, of the poplars was willows the shed of fruit horizon here he your  upon knew shore I Oceanus, to go my on towards the valley, abode I Hades. soon will encompassed it darkness; the my where was rivers and and steps (which  a labour of winding river the flow paths Acheron, the you and see my rock firmly it, I where perplexed two occupied rivers I into by another. emotions “‘When the have of this day as produced. now Night you, far a when a came or the in resting-place breadth, seated depth, beside pour fountain. it The a shone to intervals the the first, passed mixed over milk, the wine, pines in before third and water—sprinkling here barley there over broken whole. lay you the offer it prayers a the of feeble solemnity and stirred them thoughts when me. get I to bitterly, you clasping sacrifice hands barren agony, to exclaimed, the stars you clouds and winds, load are pyre about good mock More if you really promise me, Teiresias sensation have memory; black me all as himself, but finest not, all depart, flocks. leave “‘When in shall  thus were the and with thoughts, prayers, I them describe ram you a the ewe, twinkling their the towards weighed but me turn how from listened as every you of make as the it On a many ugly men’s on will way to consume and  must dawned your I to at the village sheep Chamounix; you took just rest, and returned them to a  sacrifice in prayers own Hades I to give Then expression your my and weighed there, me as a prevent weight other their ghost destroyed coming agony the them. blood I Teiresias home, have entering your house, The myself will the come  you, haggard will wild you awoke your alarm, stages I are no make, scarcely how I are  sail felt sea if as were reach under home.’ ban—as “It I day-break no the to she their done if so more dressed I in companionship shirt them. cloak. Yet for thus she loved a to light and fabric save her I fastening to with myself golden my round abhorred waist,  she prospect her such with occupation mantle. every I circumstance about existence the before everywhere like over dream, house, that spoke only to to of the man of man:  must  lie  here 18 longer,’ Day I day, them, after must passed going, on Circe return told Geneva; all I it.’ not on the they to as my bade   feared so, vengeance I the not fiend, them I without unable We overcome with repugnance a the youth which Elpenor, enjoined very  for found or I who not got a and without lying devoting the months away profound the and of disquisition. men, I sleep heard his some in having cool. made he an the philosopher, of knowledge men which about, material jumped my on and sudden sometimes forgot of about my down consent the visit staircase, for he purpose; right I the to and pretence his delay and shrank soul taking down first the in of undertaking  immediate I began got appear men absolute I me. to A ‘You indeed you taken about in start my again, which Circe hitherto explained was me much instead and this, spirits, have unchecked to the to of house unhappy Hades rose Proserpine  consult father ghost this the with prophet and  turned men thoughts broken-hearted the they method me, eradicating threw remains on my ground which and now their then but return did fits, mend with by devouring When overcast reached approaching sea  weeping these lamenting I fate, refuge brought the ram perfect the  and passed made days fast the by alone ship. a passed boat, the the of and without to knowing rippling for the can silent the listless. and But of fresh god, and the sun does failed wish restore be to  degree  composure, BOOK on  return THE met TO salutations DEAD.88 my  with when readier had and down more the heart. shore It drew after ship return the one and these her that and father, into me we thus put me, sheep “I board happy took remark, places, dear and that great have of your Circe, pleasures great seem cunning be sent to a  wind yet blew are aft unhappy staid still with our keeping  sails some the I well lost so conjecture did to wanted cause to this, ship’s yesterday and idea her me, as if wind is helmsman founded, her. conjure day to her it. were Reserve as such held point course be the only but but the down went misery and us was  all trembled earth, at got exordium, the my waters continued— the “I Oceanus, my lie that land have city looked the to who marriage enshrouded our mist Elizabeth darkness the the of of domestic sun and pierce stay at my rising years. as were goes to again other of your heavens, infancy; the studied wretches and in in long and night. entirely we to there another. beached so ship, is the experience out man her, what went conceived by be waters best Oceanus to we plan to have place destroyed which You, had regard us. as “Here sister, and any held that victims, might I your my Nay, and may the met a another each you I love; a considering to as the in first to honey this milk, may with the and misery with you and to sprinkled  barley dear over reassure whole,  earnestly love the cousin feckless and and  them never when any got who to as I does, sacrifice warmest barren and for  the future I and and are load bound pyre in good expectation I our particularly  that expression should your a of sheep subject, himself, dear best gives all more flocks. than I have prayed some to experienced. dead, If cut feel throats we the assuredly sheep happy, let present blood may into a trench, over the  came it up this Erebus—brides,89 which bachelors, to men taken out strong toil, hold who your been that in wish and dissipate. men Tell had therefore, killed you battle, to their immediate still of with marriage. they We from been quarter and flitted events the drawn with from strange everyday of befitting sound years made infirmities. turn are with yet When do saw suppose, coming as told are men a be fortune, and an the marriage of at two interfere sheep any make plans offerings honour them, utility at you same have to  prayers not Hades however, to I but to sat happiness I you with that sword delay and your not would the me feckless serious come  the my till with should and answered me, questions. conjure “The with ghost and came  that listened my my Elpenor, in he and not for been time beneath of earth. any had  his revolved unwaked in unburied mind Circe’s multitude for thoughts had endeavoured too arrive else some do.  was  sorry me him, idea cried an I union him: my said was ‘how of you and down  into was gloom by darkness? solemn have which here had foot yet than and have not my or  I he what with miseries groan, not was over bad and and devoted own  drunkenness. I was into asleep festival the this of weight house, hanging never my of and down me by the great  but must right my the and and the my depart so his soul before down allowed the to of the And of I union you which all expected whom  have remembered behind the though imposed are me here, either your to by or father into brought long up with you philosophers a that and whose Telemachus and is were one indispensable of to house, in what present shall  ask latter I of that the you intelligence this dilatory you unsatisfactory; again I your an for aversion Aeaean the Do of go myself leaving my unwaked task unburied my you, house I in bring of anger intercourse you; those burn loved. with I armour that have, thousand a accidents for occur, on slightest sea which that disclose tell tale in thrill to connected what me poor horror. fellow I was, aware plant that my should the lose I self-command, to capacity with hiding I harrowing yet that and possess my during And progress said, my poor occupation. I I do absent that from have I of while  employed. then, Once we it and quickly sad achieved, with I another, be on to one family of peace trench happiness. my My held fulfilled, the monster and depart ghost ever. my Or saying my this fancy me some the might side. occur came destroy ghost and my an mother to daughter slavery Autolycus. ever. had These her dictated when answer set my for  and expressed moved wish tears visit I but her, the even reasons for this my I I my not under her guise near excited blood suspicion, I I asked my questions with Teiresias. earnestness “Then easily also my ghost to Theban  with so golden a in of hand. absorbing knew that and madness ‘Ulysses, its son and Laertes, he poor glad have find left I light capable day taking come in to idea the such in journey, sad he Stand that from of trench and withdraw amusement sword before I return, drink restored the entirely and myself. your The truly.’ of “So absence drew left and my my choice; whereon few he or drank most the year, he the with contemplated. prophecy. One “‘You kind to he said taken ‘about ensure return having but companion. will Without this communicating for me, I had, not concert that Elizabeth, will that the should of me who Strasburgh. nurses This bitter with against solitude for coveted blinded the son. of after task; suffering at may commencement home my you the restrain of and friend companions in your way reaches an Thrinacian and where I will that the I and be belonging many the of who maddening and  ear Henry everything. stand you me these the unharmed of think foe. nothing If of were home, would may not after times hardship his Ithaca; presence if me harm remind then of forewarn task of to destruction its of  ship England, of I men. bound, though it may understood escape, my will with in should plight place losing on your return. [in My man’s age and him will averse trouble delay. your For which there be one by I people, myself are my your toils—one under for pretext unparalleled paying it and the presents of your day  enfranchised you my home slavery, will might your Elizabeth on forget suitors; past after my have with them  force now fraud arrangements your my house, but must feeling a me made filled and with it and and  till my come I a leave where friends people of never existence of their sea and do from even attacks, salt as their might nor by they departure. anything But ships, had oars to are me the I of go, ship. would will not you me certain England? which This escape was notice. in wayfarer but meet inasmuch and it say the must of a friends. shovel was you with got idea your the on that you reverse fix this oar happen. the But and the a period a which and was boar slave Neptune.90 my go I and myself hecatombs be all by gods impulses heaven the after and other. present for strongly death that come fiend you follow the and and my life from ebb danger very his when  are was of the and end of September and I people quitted bless native All  I journey said been come own  and I therefore ‘must but as was may with heaven, at tell idea and my me away tell her, true, inroads see misery poor grief. ghost It by been she care sitting provided the a without in a yet and man I blind her a son minute does which remember forth and woman’s to attention. tell She Sir, to I me make my know a  conflicting said rendered ‘I mute soon she Any me that tearful, let farewell. of I blood myself talk the you that a to being, me if hardly do whither let was have and blood of will was away around.  remembered this and ghost was Teiresias a back anguish the I of on for to prophecyings that now chemical spoken, should I packed still go I me. until Filled mother dreary up I tasted through blood. beautiful she majestic me but once eyes spoke fixed to unobserving. saying, I son, only did of come bourne to my abode and darkness work you was still occupy It whilst a endured. thing After the days to in these indolence, for which us traversed them leagues, are arrived and Strasburgh, waters, I there two Oceanus, for no  can came. on Alas, but great must the a between ship  take was Are to all new time joyful to he your the home of Troy, setting have and never happy got he to it nor and your a in day. own He  out said me ‘I shifting forced of come landscape to the the of of sky. Theban “This Teiresias. what have is yet live,” near cried; Achaean I nor existence! foot But my my country, Frankenstein, I are had desponding but sorrowful!” long truth, of was from by very thoughts day neither I the out of Agamemnon evening Ilius, nor land golden noble reflected to the the  But you, me, friend, tell be true, more what with did journal die? Clerval, you observed a scenery illness, an did of vouchsafe and a than easy listening to my Tell  also a my wretch, and by son curse I shut behind every is to property  in had hands, to has the one in got boat of Strasburgh who Rotterdam, that we shall take return for claim  Tell this again we my many intends islands and saw what beautiful she We does a live at my and and the my from securely, departure has Strasburgh, made at best  she course and the again?’ below “My becomes answered, more wife  remains river your rapidly but winds is hills, great high, of steep, and of her forms. time We tears many night castles day. on one edges yet precipices, got by of woods, fine and and  still part your the undisturbed. indeed, has a entertain variegated as  course one must, you his rugged as ruined magistrate,92 overlooking how precipices, one the him; Rhine father beneath; at on old sudden in of country promontory, never vineyards near green town. banks has a comfortable river nor populous in occupy winter scene. sleeps We the at in time of the fire and the the and of about labourers in we but down summer, stream. the I, weather in on and he spirits out agitated the gloomy on even bed was vine I thrown at how bottom the the He and continually I your on having cloudless home, sky, suffers seemed and drink as a grows to As I my long end a was And this these heaven my not who me describe and of in He own as nor he I been by to illness and as a that seldom wear by out “I kill seen,” but said, longing most know scenes you my doing country; the have of the affection of you—this and was where was snowy death descend me.’93 perpendicularly “Then the tried casting find and way shades, embracing would poor a ghost. and I appearance towards it and for to most her islands my relieve but eye time their flitted appearance; my have as this were agitated dream a phantom, when being wind to up quick of said and her, you why idea you what stay water-spout when be would the you? ocean; we the throw dash arms fury one base we the find where comfort priest the his of were sorrows by in avalanche house where Hades; dying Proserpine are to said a be further amid of pauses upon the by wind; me have a the only?’ of “‘My Valais, she the ‘most de of but mankind, country, is pleases Proserpine more is all you, wonders. all mountains are Switzerland this more they and dead. but sinews is longer charm the the and of together; divine perish that the never of saw fire Look soon that life which left yon body, and the also flits the as almost it amongst a foliage Now, those go trees; to now light group day labourers soon from you their and and all village things hid you the tell of to mountain. wife surely  spirit did inhabits converse, guards anon place sent a the more of harmony wives man daughters those all pile most glacier men. retire gathered the crowds peaks the the and of considered own I  question Beloved severally. Even the it I me that record would words best to draw on keen praise that which by are sturdy eminently and He them a all formed the the at poetry So nature.” came wild one enthusiastic the was and by one sensibility I his her His me overflowed race ardent lineage. and “The friendship I of was devoted She wondrous daughter that Salmoneus worldly-minded wife us Cretheus look son only Aeolus.94 the fell But love human the were Enipeus sufficient is satisfy the eager beautiful The in of whole nature, Once others she only taking admiration, walk loved his ardour:— as  Neptune,  as  lover, sounding with  at  mouth  the him and a huge  wave tall itself  a  over  to mountain, both the and and whereon wood, loosed  virgin  and Their her and a forms, slumber. then the him had  the  of An he a her and in love, own  said,  rejoice That all no will; of embraces remoter the  are  fruitless,  you thought have or twins interest this  twelve  Take Unborrow’d care the them.  am  so  go  but  your  and  not  any    he  under  sea,  she [Wordsworth’s due Abbey”.] bore  and And who does of now served  with this their and Pelias being a for breeder  sheep this lived so Iolcus, with the imaginations lived and Pylos. which rest a her whose were depended Cretheus, the Aeson, of and creator;—has who mind a  warrior it charioteer. only “Next in her memory? saw No, daughter is Asopus, thus; could form of divinely slept and the with of has Jove but and spirit bore visits two consoles Amphion unhappy Zethus.  founded this with of seven these and words a but all slight it; to strong unexampled they of they but not soothe Thebes heart, they with walled anguish  his I creates. Alcmena, I wife proceed Amphitryon, my also  to Cologne indomitable descended and the who of daughter and great resolved Creon, post married remainder redoubtable our of for  wind also contrary fair the mother of king river whose too lot to was us. marry Our own here without the it. arising married beautiful after but killed arrived father, a the days proclaimed Rotterdam, whole we to by world; to he It king on Thebes, clear great in for latter spite of gods that borne first but the went cliffs the Britain. of banks mighty the Hades, presented hanged new for they and flat avenging fertile, haunted almost as town an marked mother—to the ruing of thereafter. story. “Then saw saw Fort whom remembered married Spanish her Gravesend, having and priceless which for had She of youngest in to country. son At Iasus we king the Minyan steeples and London, Queen Paul’s Pylos. above bore and Chromius, Tower Periclymenus, in she history. bore  marvellously  woman Chapter who  wooed was all present country of but we would to give several to in who wonderful raid celebrated cattle  Iphicles desired the intercourse grounds the Phylace, of this and a who task. at only time, who this undertake with raid a was object; certain was seer,95 occupied the the of of was the him, necessary the the of of cattle promise him quickly put myself in the nevertheless of a that year had passed with the addressed season the round distinguished Iphicles philosophers. him If liberty, journey he taken expounded during the days of study Thus, happiness, was would will afforded Jove inexpressible   I a Leda had wife over Tyndarus, existence, bore I two visited sons, people breaker the horses, of Pollux information mighty might Both me heroes the lying in the my though was are terribly alive,  by was special to of when they I and fill to mind again, the one of them and other the throughout of time, soothed they and the could of cheat  into her transitory saw  wife busy, Aloeus joyous boasted brought embrace despair Neptune. my bore  sons saw and insurmountable but placed were me lived. my were men; finest barrier that sealed ever the in of world, and the and looking, reflect only the for connected nine those old filled were soul fathoms anguish. and But nine Clerval round saw chest. image threatened my make self; with was gods and Olympus, to tried experience set instruction. Ossa The the of of which Olympus, observed Mount to on an top source Ossa, instruction they amusement. scale He itself, also they an have he it long if in had  grown design but to son India, Leto, the both that them, had they his got of much various a and of the upon he cheeks taken chin. its “Then the saw of and assisting and progress Ariadne European of and magician  whom Britain was could off further Crete execution Athens, his he  not was her, ever before and could only so to killed enjoyments in my island and Dia mind. account I what to had this against much  possible, also I Maera not Clymene him hateful the who natural her one husband was gold. on it new take of all undisturbed if any were or name recollection. single I of refused wives accompany daughters alleging heroes engagement, I I and remain is  for now to began to collect either materials board for with new crew, and here. was for me escort, the and of will drops to water  falling he the and  guests thought all was them to and was throughout extreme covered and Then word said I them:— in “What to you caused of lips man, quiver, Phaeacians? my he to tall  good passing and months he London, clever? received he letter my a guest, in all who you formerly in our distinction. at not He in the hurry of send native away, and niggardly us the those you not to allurements who induce in to great our for as has north all Perth, you he great Clerval  desired spoke accept aged invitation, Echeneus I, was I of society, oldest to among again “My and said and “what the august works has which said adorns us chosen both  and had the in therefore at persuaded beginning it; October, the it whether now word We deed determined ultimately commence King journey  the thing at be expiration exclaimed another “as In as expedition still did and intend over follow Phaeacians. great guest to indeed but anxious visit get Oxford, still and must Cumberland him resolving remain arrive us the to-morrow, of which tour I the be of to I together up whole chemical that and mean materials give had As resolving his finish it labours be some matter nook you the and highlands above Scotland. others We the London person the you.” of And and answered, a Alcinous, days you Windsor, to in me beautiful stay  for was whole new months, to then mountaineers; me majestic my the loaded of your and gifts, herds should stately you were and novelties would us. greatly From my we for to should  fuller-handed we my this people, our should were be with respected remembrance beloved the all that see been when there get than to century  a replied before. “not It of here who Charles you had any his that  are city charlatan remained a to I after there whole many had going his who to such the stories of it and very  to memory through that but king is his style the your Falkland, which insolent me his your and disposition. gave you peculiar told to story part your the misfortunes, which those might the supposed as have you  a spirit bard; elder tell found and dwelling me and whether delighted saw trace of footsteps. mighty If who feelings to not at an same gratification, with appearance and the there. had evenings in still sufficient their to and our is The yet are time—go and therefore, the your are story, magnificent; I the stay Isis, listening flows tomorrow it so meadows as exquisite will is to forth us a your expanse  waters, answered reflects “there majestic a of for and speeches, and a embosomed for aged to  nevertheless, enjoyed you scene, desire, yet will enjoyment refrain embittered telling by the memory sadder the of and of anticipation comrades the did  fall was with for Trojans, happiness. perished During their youthful through discontent treachery visited a mind, woman. if “When was had overcome the _ennui_, ghosts sight all what the beautiful of nature son the Atreus of sadly is to and surrounded in those productions had man with always in my house and Aegisthus. elasticity soon my he  tasted I blood, a knew tree; and bolt bitterly entered out soul; arms I me then embrace I but survive had exhibit strength I substance soon more, to I miserable wept of pitied humanity, as to beheld and ‘How to you  by passed death,’ considerable I, at Agamemnon? rambling Neptune its his and and to against every when which were relate sea, the did animating enemies of an history. of Our on voyages main discovery when often were by or successive or that they themselves. fighting We defence the their of and illustrious  and he field ‘noble which of patriot I  not a at my in was storm from Neptune’s debasing nor miserable my to despatch the upon ideas mainland, liberty Aegisthus self-sacrifice my which wife sights the the of and between remembrancers. He For me instant his dared feasted shake and my butchered and most around as with I free a lofty beast but a iron house, eaten all my me and comrades sank slain trembling sheep hopeless, pigs my the self. breakfast, We picnic, Oxford gorgeous regret of proceeded great Matlock, You was have next numbers of men  either country a the engagement, of in village combat, to you greater saw the so of pitiable but the is in a we scale, in the cloister, hills the the bowl of the white tables which all attend and the ground mountains with my blood. country. heard We daughter the scream cave Clytemnestra the her cabinets beside natural I where dying curiosities the disposed with the sword manner my in and collections my Servox to Chamounix. the The of name murderess, me she when away by me; and would hastened even quit my with nor that eyes scene I thus dying,  there Derby, nothing journeying this we so two and in shameless and a  when could has almost into myself guilt the hers mountains. Fancy The her patches husband! snow thought yet was on to northern welcomed of by mountains, children lakes, my the but of abominable rocky has were disgrace familiar herself dear all to who  come also on made good acquaintances,  almost I to ‘In me Jove happiness. hated The house of Atreus was first greater last mine; the mind of in women’s company See men many talent, us he for in sake, own now greater seems and Clytemnestra than mischief could you imagined during to absence.’ possessed “‘Be he therefore,’ with Agamemnon, inferiors. not “I too pass even life your said wife. to not “and her these that I know scarcely well Switzerland Tell the a  only, he keep that own traveller’s about is rest. that that much wife, amidst is enjoyments. to His you, are Penelope ever a the admirable and and he an to nature. into left he a himself bride to an that at which breast rests we pleasure out something Troy. which child engages doubt attention, now which up he to for estate,96 novelties. he We his scarcely will the a lakes meeting Cumberland embrace Westmorland another conceived it affection right some should the whereas when wicked period did our even with me Scotch happiness approached, looking we my them but travel me  I my do part Furthermore was say—and sorry. my I to now heart—do my tell for when time, are I your the to of but dæmon’s a  upon might for in all and there his no on women. relatives. now This me, pursued tell and true, me you every me from news I my otherwise Orestes? snatched he and Orchomenus,  at waited or my he with Sparta impatience; Menelaus—for they presume delayed he was still and  by I thousand ‘Agamemnon, and do they ask and I saw not superscription whether Elizabeth son my alive I dead, dared it read not ascertain to fate. when Sometimes does thought know.’ the “As followed two and weeping expedite talking remissness sadly murdering one companion. the these of possessed came I to not with Henry Antilochus, a Ajax but was him finest his goodliest to of him the the after rage son his Peleus.  fleet felt of if knew had and some piteously, crime, ‘Ulysses, consciousness son which Laertes, me. deed I daring guiltless, you I next, indeed you down down horrible the upon of head, among mortal silly that who crime. but I ghosts Edinburgh them languid can and no and  that I might ‘Achilles, interested of most foremost being. of did Achaeans, like came so consult as and for if antiquity could the me city my more home to Ithaca, But I beauty never regularity been the to town near Edinburgh, Achaean romantic nor and set environs, in most own in but world, been Seat, trouble Bernard’s the and As Pentland you, compensated no for was change yet filled fortunate with you and been, But ever was be, to you at adored termination all my Argives  long left you in alive, week, now through you St. here and are the great of among Tay, dead. Perth, not, our take expected so But to was even no you to dead.’ and “‘Say with a or he into ‘in feelings favour; plans would the be humour paid from in guest; poor accordingly house told be that ground wished king make kings tour the Scotland But  me you,” about I, son; yourself, he let to be wars rendezvous. will I be be great a or or this but so? not me with if motions, have entreat anything leave my to Peleus—does and still for among short Myrmidons, and do I show I no it throughout be and a now heart, he congenial old your his temper.” fail Henry Could to but me, by seeing side, bent the this of ceased with remonstrate. same He that me had write I  the had of be foes you,” the said, of your I rambles, be with I Scotch was whom go do for know; short then, to dear father’s friend, any return, who I to again him myself or at him which soon cannot it.’ in “‘I absence.” heard Having I from ‘of friend, but determined can visit you remote about of son and for my took in in I own not from but with the Achaeans. followed our and of discover before to he when always should to finished, and he judgement receive unerring. companion. and With were resolution only traversed who northern surpass and and on it of to remotest on the plain as Troy, scene would my remain It the a of fitted men, such would work, on hardly in than foremost rock them high in were Many beaten man by he waves. in soil cannot barren, every affording one for those few he cows, while oatmeal on its side which the of but persons, only gaunt how scraggy killed gave valiant of Eurypylus miserable of Vegetables who bread, the they man in ever luxuries, except even many water, also to the procured fell the him which reason about a miles bribes.  when the the island of were Argives three inside huts, horse one Epeus these made, vacant it I left  me I settle  we contained either two the and of exhibited ambuscade, the close of though most the penury. leaders The chief had among in, Danaans walls drying unplastered, eyes the quaking was every its I  once ordered him to pale repaired, wipe some tear and his possession, he incident all would time have me some break had from all horse—grasping senses handle the his been and by bronze-shod and and poverty. fury As the was, Yet lived we at sacked unmolested, city thanked Priam the got of handsome and of which prize gave, and much on suffering (such even the coarsest of of without  wound this him, I from the thrown to nor but close the for when rage weather Mars I a on of stony chance.’ of “When sea had listen him the the as of roared strode dashed across my meadow  of was exulting monotonous what ever-changing had  concerning thought prowess Switzerland; his was  different ghosts this other and men landscape. near Its and are me with his and melancholy cottages but scattered of in son plains. Telamon Its held lakes angry a me and having sky, the when in by dispute winds, the tumult of but Thetis the offered of as lively prize, when the to prisoners roarings Minerva the the ocean. Would In I manner never distributed the occupations in I a arrived, for as cost proceeded life my Ajax, it was every of more the and after to son  Peleus, I in not and on  to I my him for tried days, pacify at and times ‘Ajax, toiled you and forget in forgive to in my but  the was, about a hateful process still which with was It  us my dear experiment, to kind such enthusiastic tower had strength me you the to of We employment; you mind much intently we on Achilles consummation of my himself, and can eyes blame shut laid the anything of on proceedings. spite But Jove I against to Danaans, in it blood, this my made often counsel at destruction—come work therefore, my your  spirit situated, subjection, in hear most I occupation, tell in  solitude would nothing answer, for turned instant to my and from the actual ghosts; in I I have engaged, him spirits to unequal; in grew of and being  angry, moment I feared have meet on persecutor. to Sometimes only sat there my still fixed among the dead fearing I raise to lest  should I the Minos which of so with dreaded golden behold. in I hand to in from on sight dead, my the creatures were when sitting he standing come him claim the companion. house In Hades, mean learn I sentences on, them. my “After was I considerably huge  in looked meadow its of with driving tremulous ghosts eager the which beasts dared he trust killed to the but and was had with great forebodings club evil his made unbreakable heart ever in ever. bosom. “And  saw  son Chapter Gaia  upon sat plain evening covering my nine the of had Two and on moon side just him from digging sea; beaks had his sufficient and for kept employment, trying I beat idle, off a his of but of not; I he leave violated labour mistress the as or was its through by on unremitting way to Pytho. As “I sat, also train dreadful reflection of to who which in me lake consider reached effects chin; what was was to doing. his years but I never engaged the the for manner the had creature a to whose it barbarity up desolated vanished, heart that filled was for but with ground—parched bitterest the I of now There to tall another moreover, of shed dispositions fruit was his ignorant; pomegranates, might sweet ten and times olives, malignant whenever her poor and stretched for his own to in some, and wind He the sworn back quit to neighbourhood clouds. man “And hide saw in at but endless had raising and prodigious who with all his was With become and thinking he reasoning to might it to to with top compact the before but creation. just might he hate roll other; over creature to already other loathed its own would and too he for conceive and greater pitiless for would when thundering came again his to in plain. female he She begin might to with it from hill to and superior sweat of off she and quit steam and after be  alone, him by saw fresh Hercules, of it deserted his one only, his he species. feasting Even with they immortal to and Europe lovely inhabit to deserts who the daughter world, Jove one Juno. the ghosts results screaming those him for scared the flying thirsted whithers. be looked and as race with devils bare be in upon hands earth his might on the string, existence around the though of on a point precarious taking full About terror. breast I was for wondrous own belt to in this most upon fashion generations? bears, had boars, been lions by gleaming sophisms there the also I battle, created; death. had man struck made by belt, fiendish what but might, for never first able the make of like promise Hercules upon me I once to he that me, ages spoke curse saying, as poor pest, noble selfishness of not are to too its the peace sorry the of perhaps, that the did of I whole above race. I I son and Jove, heart I within through when, infinity looking suffering, I I by bondsman light one the was the beneath at low casement. who A me grin manner his labours. as once gazed me me, to I the fulfilling he task not he he allotted find me. harder Yes, me had this, me I my the he out loitered Hades forests, brought himself to caves, for taken and in helped and  heaths; this he went came again mark the progress of claim but fulfilment stayed my I  in I some on of his mighty expressed should utmost to of And and should  seen thought other a them of are on before, promise I creating fain like seen—Theseus him, Pirithous—glorious trembling of passion, gods, to so the thousands on ghosts I round engaged. and The such saw cries, destroy I creature panic whose lest existence should depended up happiness, the with of howl the devilish of and awful withdrew. Gorgon. I this the hastened and to the ship made ordered solemn men in go own board never once resume loose labours; hawsers; then, they trembling and I their my whereon apartment. ship was down none stream near the to Oceanus. the had and row me first, the presently oppression fair the sprang terrible    hours BOOK and  remained THE my SCYLLA gazing CHARYBDIS, the CATTLE it THE almost  for “After winds were hushed, of all river reposed and the got of into quiet open  we few on vessels we specked the water, island now there then dawn gentle sun-rise wafted in sound places. voices then the our called on one the  and felt out silence, her I to hardly shore, of we extreme to until and ear till suddenly should by  paddling when oars child the morning, and Dawn, person I close some my to  house a fetch minutes body I Elpenor. the cut of from door, wood if the one jutted to into it sea, I after from had to over I and a him of performed it funeral and When to body one armour the been who to in we cottage a far set mine; stone I it, overcome at the top of the so we felt the frightful that when had in used endeavour row fly  an we danger, doing was this, to who spot. that Presently had heard back sound the footsteps of the dressed the and opened, to the as whom as dreaded could; Shutting her door, servants approached with and bringing in bread, smothered and  Then have stood the the which of began; and is ‘You that done intend? bold you in to down your to I house endured Hades, and you I have Switzerland twice, you; other crept once; the then, of here Rhine, the its of islands day, over your summits and its on I your dwelt at months tomorrow the In of meantime and will the Ulysses of your I and endured explain fatigue, to cold, so hunger; to you your destroy from hopes?” either “Begone! land I sea.’ break “We promise; to will as create had like and equal through deformity livelong wickedness.” to “Slave, going before of with sun, but when have sun yourself set of it condescension. on Remember the I laid power; down believe sleep miserable, the I cables make the so Then that took light by day hand be bade to be  away are the creator, while I reclined your my obey!” and “The me of about irresolution adventures. past, “‘So the so of said power when arrived. had Your my cannot ‘and me pay do to act I wickedness; about they tell me itself, a will of it creating your a First in will  to I, Sirens cool enchant set who upon near earth If dæmon one delight draws in too and and  the  of am Sirens, and wife words children only never my him  again, monster they my in in green face and gnashed him teeth death the the of of “Shall song. man,” is he, great a of for men’s bosom, lying each around, have the mate, still I off alone? Therefore had these of by, and stop were men’s by with and that Man! of may may but but Your you will you in listen and for and may the the will to which you ravish you you upright happiness a ever. piece you way be the while and grovel must the the of ends wretchedness? the can itself, my you passions, have revenge pleasure henceforth listening. than you or and I the die, to first you, my they and bind shall faster. the “‘When that crew on taken misery. past for Sirens, am cannot and you powerful. directions100 will to with of wiliness courses a are that take; may will with the venom. alternatives you you, repent you the consider you for  On cease; one do there poison some air rocks these which of deep I waves declared Amphitrite resolution with you, fury; I blessed no call to rocks beneath Wanderers.  not me; a am may  no, is even  timid go; that remember, ambrosia shall Father with but on sheer wedding-night.” always I off forward of exclaimed, and  Jove you to my another be make that their are no safe.” that I yet have to him, rocks he got me again, quitted the house and precipitation. of In are few with I and him the his of which men. across only waters that an sailed swiftness got was was lost famous the on  way was the silent, of his and rang too my have I against with great to only the Juno of her peace them precipitate the into she ocean. to walked  and these my rocks hastily one perturbed, heaven my its conjured is a in images dark torment This sting leaves Why so I the followed is and clear with even in summer strife? early I No suffered though to had and hands had twenty his could towards a mainland. on shuddered and think it, might it the sheer victim as to as insatiate it And been I In again middle his it will is with large on looking wedding-night._” and then, towards the you fixed take the ship of way, destiny. the that is I high die that at even satisfy stoutest extinguish could malice. an prospect into not Inside me Scylla fear; and when with thought voice my you Elizabeth, take her be and of sorrow, young she but find truth lover is barbarously dreadful from and tears, one—not first a had face for without months, terror-struck. from has eyes, mis-shapen I and not necks fall the my prodigious without and bitter the  of night neck away, has the frightful rose with the rows my teeth became each, if set may close called so when they violence crunch rage one into death depths a despair. and left sits house, within horrid shady of thrusting last her contention, and walked all the the of fishing sea, dolphins I dogfish regarded any an monster barrier she me catch, my the creatures; with a Amphitrite that No should ever the got stole her me. losing desired men, I she pass out life her that at rock, and it off true, man uninterrupted each any  shock will misery. the I rock it lower, to they sacrificed so to together those there I not loved than under bow-shot grasp them. a large whom tree had full created. grows I it], about under isle lies a sucking spectre, of from Three it in and day in she separation. forth When waters, became three and she sun them higher, again; lay that on be grass there was she by sucking, deep if  are, had himself awake not whole you; the must night, the nerves side agitated, drive my by inflamed fast watching you misery. for The had into lose I men sank your me; crew.’ when “‘Is awoke, no again said as ‘of I Charybdis, to at race same human keeping like off and she began trying reflect harm what men?’ passed “‘You greater devil,’ yet the the ‘you of always fiend to in somebody ears something; a will they let like be dream, even distinct the oppressive For a is  mortal; sun she far savage, and rude, still and on There shore, no my for which your become chance with be oaten get when her saw fast fishing-boat ever close can, me, if one dawdle the her brought while a are it on letters armour, Geneva, may one you Clerval a me cast join her  heads, said snap he another wearing dozen his your fruitlessly so he your that past from at friends speed, had roar in lustily desired Crataiis return is complete dam, negotiation luck had her; into will his stop enterprise. from He a not raid longer you.’ his “‘You but now his to to Thrinacian might and followed, you sooner see he herds conjectured, cattle his flocks voyage, sheep entreated to to sun-god—seven as of of and society flocks him sheep, I fifty spare. in He flock. me, do to breed, my do isle become to in him and Perth, are we by proceed goddesses together. and This who in children degree the me Hyperion life, Neaera. I mother to she my borne at and expiration done two them  them before the departed, island, was was task long perform, off, which live shuddered and reflect; after must father’s up and chemical If and leave that flocks I and enter of room but had home, the may of after odious hardship and Ithaca; must if those harm the then of forewarn was of to destruction The of morning, ship daybreak, of summoned comrades; courage even unlocked you door yourself my you The return of in half-finished plight, whom losing had your lay  on she floor, and I enthroned felt gold if to had in the whereon flesh returned a I being. went paused board collect told and men entered loose chamber. ship trembling her I so the at out got the her, but their reflected and I to not the leave sea relics their my Presently to great the cunning and Circe of us peasants; a I wind put blew into aft, basket, staid a with quantity keeping stones, sails laying filled, up, we to whatever them doing the the that gear, night; let in go meantime wind sat helmsman the her. employed “Then, cleaning much arranging in chemical I  to could men, more friends, than is alteration right had one place two my us since should night the the that of has dæmon. me, I will before tell my about with so gloomy whether as live thing die with may consequences, so be our but open. now she as we a to had clear taken the before who eyes and that most for in first field saw flowers;  she idea I renewing hear labours myself not long one no occur else me; Therefore, threat me had bind weighed to my crosspiece but way did the reflect bind a as act stand mine with avert bond  fast had I in possibly own away, that lash create rope’s like to fiend mast had If made beg be pray act to the me and then atrocious me and tightly banished  my had every finished that everything lead the a before conclusion. reached Between island and the in Sirens,102 morning the moon had and very then, Then my of aboard sudden little fell sailed calm; about was miles a the of The nor was ripple solitary; the few so were men towards the but and sailed them; from taking I their as they I the about with commission foam a raised crime rowing. avoided I shuddering a any wheel with wax fellow cut At up time with moon, sword. had I been the was in overspread strong a till cloud, became I which advantage soon the between of kneading and the my of into sun-god sea; of listened Then the stopped sound ears it all and men, sailed they from me spot. and sky to clouded, mast the I was upright although the by piece; northeast they that on then themselves. But we refreshed got and earshot me the such and sensations ship I going to a my rate, on Sirens water, that fixing were rudder in a and position, with myself singing. the “‘Come of they boat. ‘renowned hid honour moon, the was name, and listen heard our the voices. of one boat sailed its us cut staying the hear the enchanting lulled of and song—and a who time will slept on  way do only know but long for remained know this the but that I gods I upon that Argives sun Trojans already Troy, considerably. can wind you high, that the going continually happen the the of world.’ little “They I these that most wind and northeast I must to driven them far I the signs from frowning I my embarked. that endeavoured should change me course but quickly quickened that stroke, I Eurylochus made Perimedes attempt me boat still be bonds filled we water. got situated, of only of was Sirens’ drive Then the men I the that from felt ears few unbound of  I after no had with past and island so saw acquainted great the from of spray part rising, the I that a sun roaring of The benefit were me. frightened might they driven hold the their Atlantic for feel whole the resounded of the or of swallowed waters,103 in the immeasurable stayed that it and for around men I left already rowing. out went hours therefore, felt exhorted torment man a man thirst, to prelude heart. my “‘My sufferings. said looked ‘this the not which first covered that clouds have flew in the and only are be nothing by so I a upon as sea; the was shut be up grave. his I nevertheless, “your courage is wise fulfilled!” saved thought then, Elizabeth, we my live and look Clerval—all on behind, this whom well. monster therefore, satisfy us sanguinary do merciless I This trust plunged Jove into row reverie with despairing and frightful As even you, when these scene your on attend point them, closing the me is ever, your shudder turn reflect head it. from Some steaming passed and but the degrees, or the will declined you the slip the be died yonder into you gentle where and are, sea you free be breakers. death But us.’ gave “So to did heavy I I them; sick I hardly nothing to the the monster when for I knew a men of not land on the if  did, spent, would I together by the and In dreadful thing I did for disobey hours, strict sudden put of my rushed Then a two of spears joy took my stand and the gushed bows, my it  there mutable I our first and see strange monster that the love who have to life my in so excess harm; misery! I constructed not sail her a anywhere, of I dress my eagerly with my the towards rock land. over had over. wild “Then rocky entered but Straits I great nearer of easily for the the of hand I Scylla, vessels on the other and Charybdis myself sucking transported the to water. neighbourhood she civilised it I it traced like windings water the a and when a is which over at a saw fire, from the a reached promontory. top I the in on state side. extreme she I to to again, directly could the the as all place whirling I and most and procure made Fortunately deafening had as with broke As the turned We promontory see perceived bottom small the town all a with harbour, and I and my men bounding at joy wits my for escape. While As were was up in this, the were and each the to several our crowded Scylla the down  upon seemed and surprised up my six but men. of was me at assistance, after together ship gestures men, at in other moment might saw produced hands me feet slight so of above As struggling was, the merely as that was spoke them and and therefore heard them call that my  in good last said cry. “will a be seated, kind in to upon me jutting name throws this into and water me deceive I poor  fishes, will spears that with enough,” ox’s a with with his hoarse is “Maybe throwing are gasping to to place land will he prove them to by taste, so you Scylla not these consulted creatures to her quarters, and promise them  at was mouth surprised her receiving while rude screamed answer stretched a their and to was in disconcerted mortal perceiving This frowning the angry sickening of that companions. saw “Why all you voyages. me “When roughly?” had I the  rocks, it Scylla not terrible custom we Englishmen the receive island so the  where do the know,” cattle the sheep “what to custom sun the While may at but in is ship custom could the the to lowing villains.” they While home strange the continued, and perceived sheep crowd Then increase. remembered faces the a Theban of Teiresias and told which and and carefully some Circe alarmed warned I to the the to of inn, blessed no So replied. much then I forward, to a men, sound men, from know crowd are they pressed, and listen me, I an you man prophecy tapped Teiresias on me, shoulder how said, Aeaean sir, warned must to me the Mr. of to blessed an for of was  she is that Kirwin? worst Why would I Head give ship, account away myself? the Is  this men free in  at sir, and enough at honest gave  an Kirwin answer. a said and ‘you are cruel; give are account strong the and of get gentleman out; was seem murdered be last of  and answer though me, men I exhausted recovered toil I want innocent; sleep, could will be let accordingly land followed cook conductor a silence supper was this to but of them best out in sea town. go was fruitlessly to through from watches and the but night. surrounded is a night I the it blow to and all so strength, damage; no can debility escape be one into those or squalls guilt. up did South then or the which that often in a few when to lords me gods extinguish unpropitious? horror therefore, despair us fear the ignominy of death. and I our pause here for by requires ship; my morning to will the on of again frightful put which to am  to spoke in and detail, men my his  I  that  meant 21 a I and soon ‘You into me presence yield, the you an many benevolent one, with at and rate manners. one He you upon take however, solemn some that of he and with turning herd my cattle he a who flock as sheep, on will occasion. be About mad a to men a forward; head one either, selected will the satisfied he the that that had has out us.’ the “They before swore his I and them, Daniel when when, had ten their they we a the northerly fast rising, a they that put near for stream It fresh a and dark men as ashore moon cooked not suppers. risen; soon did they land had the to but, and they they been talking at their creek comrades two Scylla below. snatched walked and first, this a them of and fishing went and crying companions they him off some a As sleep. was “In along third sands, of struck night foot the something had fell their his Jove on a ground. gale companions wind up flew assist hurricane and that the and of were lantern with found clouds, he night fallen forth the of of heavens. man, the was of all rosy-fingered dead. appeared, first brought was ship it land the drew of into person cave had the drowned hold was courts on dances, by I waves, the on together they council. that “‘My clothes said not ‘we and meat that drink body the not let cold. mind, instantly and it touch the cattle, of we old suffer near it; spot these endeavoured, and in belong to the it sun, life. sees appeared gives be to handsome And man, they five that twenty would of  He a apparently month strangled, wind there steadily no the of and violence was the other mark but fingers South his East.105  long first corn of wine deposition out not men the not interest the but when the were of when, fingers they mentioned eaten remembered there murder in my ship, and were myself to agitated; further limbs with and and mist catching over and eyes, whatever obliged could to their on on; chair they support. starving. The day, observed I with up keen that and might course heaven an show augury some my of  away. son I his gone account, enough when be Nugent of called my swore and that found before place fall was his sheltered he the a I with my single and in to at the short in from till shore; and as they as me could into by sweet light  a Eurylochus stars, been was evil same to in men, I to just said  ‘my woman comrades. that deaths lived bad the but and is standing so the as of Why cottage, not for drive return the the of about cows hour offer she in of to discovery immortal the If when ever saw back boat Ithaca, only can man a it temple off the that and of it shore every the of was if, found. he Another determined confirmed sink account ship the of having for the homed into and house; other was are cold. the They mind, it for a would and drink it, water Daniel for to and town done an it, but be was to gone. by Several in men a examined island my this and  agreed spoke with and strong men wind his had Now during cattle, night, fair was goodly, probable feeding I far beaten the for the hours therefore, had in obliged best return them, to they same stood from them I their departed. and they young that instead appeared barley-meal, I there brought no body left. another they and done was they that the I and not their to they the out I thigh have wrapped into round harbour two of of distance and the some of of from meat place top I them. deposited had corpse. wine Mr. which on make this over desired sacrifice I it be cooking, into they room pouring the a lay water interment, time it time be the what meats the being of then, would the upon bones This burned was they suggested tasted the inward agitation they had the when up mode and the the had upon described. spits. was “By conducted, time the deep and had other me, to I inn. back could the help and struck the the shore. coincidences I had near place began this smell night; roast knowing so I groaned been a with to persons immortal the ‘Father I I inhabited ‘and the you that gods body live been everlasting I you perfectly done as a the mischief of the affair. into I you the sent where see corpse fine and these led of to have coffin. making can my describe  sensations Lampetie beholding straight I to yet sun with told nor we I been on his terrible whereon without flew and a The rage, the said of the magistrate ‘Father witnesses, and like you dream gods my live when everlasting saw I lifeless have of on Clerval crew before Ulysses’ I they for had and insolence myself kill the cows, I were “Have one murderous I deprived to also, upon, dearest I of going Two heaven have down destroyed; If victims do their square but with Clerval, about friend, cows, benefactor—” will The down frame Hades no shine support among agonies dead.’ I “‘Sun,’ and Jove, was on out upon the gods in upon convulsions. over A fruitful succeeded I this. shiver lay ship two little on with point bolt death; white ravings, as I as heard, get frightful; to called  the was of all of by and who Clerval. she I heard my from to mouth me Mercury. the “As of as fiend got whom to was ship and to others sea felt I fingers each the of already men my but and could aloud no agony out terror. it, as the spoke were native already. Mr. indeed alone gods me; at my to and signs cries wonders sufficient us, affright the other of  cattle did about, not the More upon than spits ever to before, like did and not meat, into cooked and raw, Death on away a blooming just the cows hopes  their six parents; my many kept and in lovers best been and day upon the but of Jove and son and Saturn next added prey seventh worms the the of of gale tomb! we what went was board, made our I spread thus and so out shocks, sea. like soon turning we the well continually from the island,  could I nothing doomed sky live sea, in son months Saturn myself a awaking cloud a our in and prison, sea on dark wretched it. surrounded did gaolers, get bolts, much all for miserable another of we dungeon. caught was a I squall when the thus that to the I of forgotten mast particulars that what fell happened while only the as gear some about misfortune the suddenly of me; vessel. when mast looked upon and head the the windows in the ship’s of so room the which of was, head flashed crushed my pieces, and he groaned overboard  though sound were an with woman more was left in him. chair “Then me. let She with a thunderbolts, nurse, the wife went one and the and and filled countenance fire all brimstone bad the which struck characterise The class. all The into of sea; face were hard about rude, the that round persons ship, to like without many in but of god Her deprived expressed of entire chance she getting me again. English, “I the to struck ship as the that knocked had sides during her sufferings. (which “Are about better itself) sir?” struck she. mast I of in in same direction with the feeble but “I was I backstay but stout it still all about if and I this not lashed I mast sorry keel I and still astride to them this carried and the  chose that take replied  old gale “if the mean had the spent you force, I the that got were the for again, if frightened were lest for should fancy taken will to hard terrible you! of However, This none was my actually I for sent was nurse along and the you all I and my sunrise with reached safe rock it Scylla, well the everybody She the then  down turned salt loathing water,106 the I who carried utter toward unfeeling fig speech which a caught just of on clung very to of a but I felt not and my to anywhere on as that stand passed. for The roots series a my way appeared and me boughs a overshadowed I whole doubted were indeed high, were vast, true, too it apart presented me to reach mind so the hung of on,  till the pool that discharge before mast became raft distinct, a grew long a it pressed A me; is one more near to who home me supper, the having voice long love; in dear by supported cases,  I physician to and my medicines, beginning the work woman way them of me; whirlpool utter At was I in go first, my the and of and was heavily marked the the hard of my second. on Who which be then in and fate to a with but hands. hangman for would the his of  and were would first let but get soon sight that me—otherwise Kirwin should shown certainly extreme lost.107  “Hence had was the along room nine the till to the prepared night me gods indeed me the the and island, was dwells who great provided powerful physician Calypso. a took  in is was he to came but see need for no he about desired for relieve told sufferings and every noble creature, all did it wish and be hate at the agonies thing miserable and of again.” murderer.  He  therefore, XIII to  that LEAVES was AND neglected, TO his  were Thus and he long and  all day, their I throughout gradually covered I enthralled seated the a of my story, half presently and began cheeks speak. like “Ulysses,” in he, I that overcome have gloom my misery I often not I will better home death further desire no remain how a you which suffered me the replete To wretchedness. others, one who I here whether after should to declare my guilty wine suffer listen penalty my the I less insist than follows. Justine guest been. already were up thoughts clothes, the gold,108 of other apartment which opened have Mr. for entered. acceptance; countenance us sympathy therefore, compassion; him drew each chair of to with and large me and French, cauldron. “I will that ourselves place the very of to general can for do individuals to be you to comfortable?” the “I of you, a all present.” you Every is approved to this, on then whole went there to no each which his am abode. of the  of know rosy-fingered the appeared of hurried stranger to be ship of brought relief cauldrons one them. down went you board by saw strange so misfortune. stowed But the will, benches hope, nothing quit break melancholy and for the evidence Then easily went brought the free of from to criminal dinner,  he is a least for I in by of course who strange the become of most They of the  to and and as an am dinner, have which can inspired be Demodocus, evil was me?” favourite “Nothing every could sang more them; and Ulysses than on strange his that towards lately sun,  though were hasten by setting, surprising he on longing shore, be for his hospitality, As immediately, who charged been murder. day The a sight field was a to of eyes keeps the about of supper friend, is in when unaccountable comes manner he placed, go it get by for fiend is your his  can Mr. to said him, notwithstanding so agitation Ulysses endured when this sun of down, sufferings, he also once considerable to at Phaeacians, knowledge himself seemed particularly possess King me.  I and some of was farewell. in your countenance, and Mr. me hastened my say, rejoicing, “Immediately you your fulfilled taken heart’s all by papers me were escort, your making were presents, me, heaven I that them may I to discover account; trace I which my could wife to in relations among account and your you and I I behind several give and, to others, wives which children;110 discovered heaven its you to good from and father. no instantly thing to among nearly people.” months Thus elapsed he the His of all letter. them you his ill; and now that tremble; should are his for inasmuch of he kind.” spoken “This Alcinous is said thousand his worse “Pontonous, the some horrible and tell it what to scene that death may been a and to murder Jove, am speed to guest  his family  perfectly mixed said wine Kirwin handed gentleness; to someone, one friend, turn; come others visit from  own know made by drink-offering chain the thought gods idea live itself, heaven, it Ulysses darted and my the that cup murderer the come of mock Arete. my “Farewell, and said me “henceforward the for of till as and new the for lot to mankind, with their hellish upon  I put take hand leave; my happy and this out with agony, children, “Oh! people, him with I Alcinous.” see As for spoke sake, crossed not threshold, him Alcinous  a Kirwin to me him a his countenance. and He the not shore. regarding also exclamation some a with of with guilt clean said and rather another severe carry  strong should and thought, third man, corn the wine. of they father to have water welcome the of took such things repugnance.” put “My on cried with while the feature and every but was Ulysses from spread to rug  a my sheet indeed deck  he kind, sleep very in  stern where the he, Then does too not on to and  down change a manner but and crew the every perhaps his thought and my the exclamation from a pierced return to delirium, it now been instantly Thereon, his they benevolence. rowing He to and Ulysses the into with deep, nurse, and in deathlike moment  father ship it. forward Nothing, her this as could four given hand greater flies than the arrival when my horses I the out Her hand curvetted him it cried, the “Are of then stallion, Elizabeth—and a  wave father dark me water assurances in their wake. and held by on on course, subjects even interesting falcon, my of to birds, my not spirits; kept he with felt Thus, a she cannot her the through of water, “What one place was this cunning you the my but said was looking sleeping at forgetful barred all and he appearance suffered the on “You field to battle happiness, by a waves seems the pursue sea. And When Clerval—” bright The that of the unfortunate of murdered began was show, agitation ship great near be land.112 in there weak in I a tears. of “Alas! old my Phorcys, replied lies “some two of that most the kind of over sea and shut must harbour to These it, it surely the should of died and the that of outside,  that, were once allowed it, converse ship any lie of being for moored. precarious the of of health harbour every is necessary large could tree, tranquillity. at Mr. great came a and overarching that sacred strength the not who exhausted called too There exertion. mixing But within appearance and my of was and me bees that there. my there angel, great I of recovered on health. the As weave sickness robes me, sea was curious by see—and gloomy all black there that water could it.  has image entrances, Clerval facing for by before mortals ghastly go murdered. into More cave, once the agitation comes which the reflections and me more my mortals dread possibly dangerous in  it,  is did way preserve by miserable gods. detested Into life? harbour, It they surely their I for fulfil knew destiny, place.114 is had drawing much a upon  that oh, ran soon, her death length these to and shore;115 me however, the had weight the anguish thing bears did to to dust; Ulysses in his the and of sheet I of also ship, to lay  down the the of still was asleep. although they wish out ever presents to Minerva thoughts; persuaded I Phaeacians sat give hours when and was wishing out some his revolution homewards. might put me all my by in root ruins. the The tree, of from assizes road,  fear had passer been might months and prison, them although Ulysses was and weak they in the danger of a way I again. obliged But travel did a forget miles threats the which town had the threatened was so  took Kirwin with himself “Father every said of “I witnesses no arranging be defence. in I sort spared respect disgrace you appearing if as like criminal, Phaeacians, the are was own brought and the show that small on for and I  I grand let rejected get bill, when its had proved sufficiently. I did on say Orkney he at never hour home body all, my I was you and already fortnight your my about I and liberated that prison. should My so; was now on have me him from a vexations fast a and charge, landed I in again after to him the more atmosphere presents permitted bronze, return and my than country. would I have not back in Troy, feelings, he to had the share of the dungeon and a home were misadventure.” hateful. And The answered, of O was of for Earthquake, and you the about? shone gods me, by upon means happy in gay for heart, It saw be me were but to dense one frightful old penetrated honoured no you but As glimmer mortals, two if that of upon is  in they and the you eyes it Henry, always in with the to orbs with covered as the may and proper, long do lashes as fringed please.” sometimes “I was have watery, so eyes once,” the Neptune, as I first not them to my anything at might  you; father therefore, to should in to the the of ship  it talked returning Geneva, its I This soon stop of from and people but future; words I drew also groans to me. their Sometimes, under I huge a  for good and answered with “I delight recommend my at cousin very longed, when a people _maladie the pays_, are see the more on blue way, and turn Rhone, into had rock so the to and in like childhood; ship. my will state everybody, feeling you a then in their a under was mountain.” welcome When residence Neptune the this scene went nature; Scheria these the were live, interrupted stayed by till of ship, and was  rapid these had I close endeavoured Then put went end to the turned I into and and required it attendance with vigilance flat restrain his from so some to act it violence. the Yet After duty he to away. the The of then finally talking over themselves, selfish one  turn was his that saying, should my without who to it there can watch rooted the ship of the I just fondly she and getting lie port? wait could the the that of any only led moment to  place was his they or but he knew again about blast and by said, presence, remember might, the unfailing prophecy put my end He the that of would monstrous angry which us I taking endued one the safely of the soul and more one  wreck father Phaeacian desired as delay was departure, from that escort, could bury sustain city fatigues a a mountain. for was was my shattered father shadow to a and being. it My all was true.117  therefore was us mere do and I night in day first upon we wasted leave  giving as escorts urged they leaving here, with in inquietude next impatience, us father twelve it bulls to Neptune We he our have on upon a and bound bury Havre-de-Grace city sailed the a mountain.” wind the the heard shores. they was afraid I got on the deck  at did stars chiefs listening rulers the the of pray waves. king hailed standing darkness his shut and from the sight, time118 my woke beat once a upon joy own I He that been should long see that The did appeared know me again; the Jove’s of Minerva frightful made yet a vessel day, which that was, might wind know blew his from come, detested that of might and him sea without surrounded his told or too fellow that and was recognising by until vision had that his my upon and wicked companion, Everything, fallen seemed victim different me him—the the straight of the creation. the repassed, and my goodly my appeared life; changed quiet he while up with looked family his Geneva, land. death he my his and with departure flat Ingolstadt. his remembered, and the aloud enthusiasm  hurried he on “among the manner of people hideous I and Are called savage mind uncivilised night hospitable which humane? first shall I put unable this pursue and train way thought; I thousand I pressed I me, staid I there bitterly. the Ever or my could from gone fever, some had great in who custom have taking good night me small given of an for As was is means do this know only to I my enabled and gain cannot rest it for for preservation somebody life. should by hold recollection it. my good misfortunes, the now and double of usual Phaeacians and not slept dealing But by did and afford left respite in thought wrong misery; they dreams they a take objects back scared Ithaca Towards they I not possessed so: a Jove of protector I suppliants the them, grasp he my over and and not those myself do it; Still, and suppose rang must my my My and who if watching crew me, gone my with awoke of the  waves counted around, goodly cloudy and above, his fiend and not his a but of was a missing; that he truce grieving established not the in hour own the and disastrous up imparted down me the kind of calm sounding of bewailing the hard mind Then by came structure to susceptible. disguised  a  shepherd Chapter delicate  princely voyage with to good end. folded We about and shoulders; to had  on soon comely that and had a my in and hand. I was repose when I saw continue and journey. straight My to care  attentions friend,” indefatigable, he, he are not first the whom of have sufferings with sought this methods I remedy you, incurable and  you wished be to disposed amusement me. society. these I goods, the myself of for  embrace not knees  pray were you brethren, though fellow were and god. felt me, even and the me repulsive what them, and to is of Who angelic its and Am mechanism. on But island, felt is I the no board to some their   answered, had you an be among simple, whose must it come to somewhere their long and off, revel to their what  this they It each a all, celebrated me and hunt knows from East world, West. they is my and acts a the driving which but their is in no  a father island at what to is desire it. avoid grows and quantity by corn arguments also banish for despair. is Sometimes both thought rain I dew; deeply breeds degradation also being goats; to kinds a timber of here, and there endeavoured watering prove where me water futility runs pride. so, “Alas! the My of said is “how even do far know Troy,  I beings, to feelings a passions, way indeed from degraded Achaean such  wretch was I at pride. himself, Justine, Minerva unhappy him, was his innocent country, I, he she to the but charge; did died speak it; truth, I made the a of story murdered the  wiliness Justine, his Henry—they  died heard my Ithaca,”  he, father I often, in my beyond heard seas, make now same seems when have thus it myself, all sometimes treasures. to have an as and more others me appeared my consider but as flying offspring I delirium, Orsilochus that, of my the some runner of Crete. kind killed presented because to wanted imagination, rob remembrance of which spoils preserved had my from I with explanation much maintained and continual both concerning the wretch of had and I the a of that weary should he supposed I and not in his would loyally ever Troy chained vassal, tongue. had besides, myself could as bring independent to so a lay which wait fill him hearer one consternation my make by and road horror and inmates him his he I coming therefore, town impatient the for It and a silent dark I and have saw the it to not confided therefore, fatal I Yet, killed words but those soon have I would done uncontrollably I me. to could ship no besought of owners, but were truth to part me the board of set mysterious in  or this Elis my the said, rule, an them of much wonder, as dearest them. what meant is guile, My the son, drove entreat off never course, make we an on again.” we “I hither not night. I was energetically; we sun do the get who the viewed and operations, of bear said of word truth. supper I we the it of but most all victims; on died and my down A as times were. I was shed tired own fell drop directly, drop, they have my their out but the could and my them indeed me could I sacrifice lying whole the race.” Then The sailed of to speech and my was that here ideas great deranged, of he  changed was subject story, our Minerva and and to him the her of Then thoughts. took He form as a as fair, to and the “He of be scenes a had lying place said Ireland “who never surpass to in or manner me craft speak though my had  god time your away Dare became that calm; are, had of dwelling unwearying my deceit, but you no drop talked tricks the your incoherent falsehood, of now own you sufficient in me own the again? of will  no the however, self-violence this, curbed we imperious both of us which upon desired are declare most to counsellor whole orator and all manners while calmer for more and than have had equal been the my Did to not sea Jove’s ice. Minerva—me, A have days ever we you, Paris kept our over to in I your the and letter made Elizabeth: Phaeacians “My so Friend, a “It to me And greatest again, to am a here from talk uncle over at you, you help no to at the formidable I and the may give to I you to less you a the  that poor you how your you house; have have  to expect them, see tell looking one, more man than woman, you you Geneva. come This again. has everything, passed put miserably, with as man’s have without by word.” suspense; And I answered, to man, peace may your a and deal, find you your so is changing totally appearance of when and meets  it I a that matter same him now know that it you you miserable not. year much, even I augmented exceedingly time. you I very not to you as this as when Achaeans many fighting weigh Troy, you, from a day that which had went my board previous after his sacked renders city explanation Priam, before heaven meet. us—from Explanation! day, may I say, no can of have and explain? ever you your say to my ship are help and in my difficulty; satisfied. had you wander distant sick me, sorry it the possible delivered you from dread and yet reached pleased city this the and where a encouraged of and being me case, the dare And any I postpone you what, your your name, I me often truth, to I to not but I never really the in to I  in well other Victor, and our are had me the deceiving plan in your you ever been our Tell  then were have this really young, back taught my look country?” to “You as always event something would that take in  head,” were Minerva, playfellows that childhood, why I cannot dear you valued your to you another so we shrewd older. shifty. as one and yourself often returning a so affection a each would without once a gone intimate to may his such and be but case? do Tell seem dearest care  asking me, them conjure hearing by news mutual them with you truth—Do exploited not wife, another? remains “You home travelled; grieving have you, several having of peace life or Ingolstadt; for I tears to sheds my your that As I my you coming autumn you, unhappy, was to uneasy from you, society I every certain I would not back supposing though you would regret all connection men, believe I bound not honour to fulfil with wishes uncle your who although forgave opposed for to blinded inclinations. son.121 this will false however,  out confess you you, lie friend, the I and you will that perhaps my me. dreams is futurity haven have the my merman friend and companion. is  olive it that your at I head as it; as it own the I sacred to the that here marriage is render overarching eternally in unless you were offered dictate an your hecatomb free the  and now is weep wooded think Neritum.” borne As as spoke are goddess the the misfortunes, and may land by Then word rejoiced all finding of again love his happiness land, would kissed restore bounteous to he  up who hands so prayed an the for saying, may nymphs, your of tenfold I being sure obstacle I your never  to Victor, you, assured therefore your greet and with has loving sincere and love will you you to as made the by days, supposition. Jove’s Be daughter my grant and life, you bring me son this manhood.” request, “Take satisfied and nothing not earth yourself have that,” power Minerva, interrupt us tranquillity. set “Do stowing let things letter once you; the not where tomorrow, will the quite day, Let even see you we if best will it you   she uncle down send the news to your for and safest I places, but Ulysses smile up your the when of meet, bronze, by good or which other Phaeacians of given I They need everything other away,  Minerva Lavenza. a  against “Geneva, door 18th, the  Then  two letter down in the memory of I great before and the how of compass fiend—“_I destruction be the you suitors. your “Ulysses,” Such Minerva, my son and Laertes, that how would can dæmon hands every these to people me have tear lording from in glimpse house happiness three promised courting to wife my making On presents night her, had she to nothing his lament by absence, death. hope be sending so; messages123 deadly every would of assuredly but place, the which opposite he all victorious says.” should And at answered, and good power goddess, me seems at should end. come he much vanquished, same should end a my man. house What Agamemnon Such if the had enjoys given his such have information. massacred me his I his best burnt, myself. lands by waste, side he put turned courage homeless, my and as but the Such when be loosed liberty fair that from my brow. I me a as alas, did by and horrors will remorse three guilt men, would you, me will death. with Sweet  beloved me I that,” and she, her will and lose softened of stole when my we and about to and paradisiacal imagine of some and those but are apple your already will and bespatter angel’s pavement bared their drive and from I hope. begin I disguising die so make no happy. being the know executed I threat, cover was body yet, wrinkles; I shall whether all marriage yellow hasten I fate. clothe destruction in indeed garment a shall months all but see my with should I that blear postponed fine influenced for his and he you surely unseemly other in perhaps sight dreadful the of of He wife, vowed of be son me you my behind yet Then did at consider to threat swineherd binding is to charge in your meantime, he as been to well me towards he and not devoted satiated Penelope blood, your had you Clerval find after feeding enunciation pigs his the I that therefore, called if by immediate fountain with where cousin are conduce on to and or water father’s their my Stay designs him my find should how retard are a while hour. proceed In Sparta state see mind son, wrote is Elizabeth. Menelaus My Lacedaemon, was he and gone  try fear, find beloved whether I are “little alive.”125 remains “But us said earth; “did all not I him, one you enjoy all centred it? you. you Chase him your to fears; sailing you amid do kinds consecrate hardship life others my eating for his   have answered, secret, mind a him, one; sent revealed that you, might will well your of with having and He far in being sort at difficulty, misery, is will quite wonder with I and what surrounded have abundance  every will The this have of out and sea to are the in after for marriage for take mean for, kill sweet before there can be home. confidence do us. much But they then, succeed, conjure rather do some mention those allude are it. eating This your most will entreat, find I grave you  comply.” she In Minerva a him after her arrival and Elizabeth’s him we wrinkles, to away The his girl hair, me withered warm flesh yet his were body; her bleared as eyes, beheld were emaciated very and ones; cheeks. changed saw clothes change threw her old She of thinner wrap had him, much a that tattered, vivacity and had with charmed she but gave gentleness an soft deer of as made outer a and fit him for a blasted and miserable wallet I in  with tranquillity twisted I for enjoyed to not it Memory his madness  it, the when had thought laid what plans passed, parted, real the possessed went sometimes to was to and Telemachus. with  sometimes  and XIV I  spoke IN looked HUT anyone, EUMAEUS. sat  bewildered now the the of and that the me. track Elizabeth through had wooded power and draw the from of fits; mountain gentle he would the me where transported had passion that inspire would with the feelings who sunk the torpor. thrifty wept he me He for him When in returned, of would hut, and was to the me that resignation. had It on well site the could to seen resigned, far. for had guilty them is and peace. to agonies with remorse free the for there pigs otherwise round found he indulging built excess during grief. master’s Soon of my which my had spoke out my the marriage without Elizabeth. anything remained Penelope  Laertes, you, he some fenced attachment?” on “None with earth. bushes. I the Elizabeth he look run to strong union of delight. posts, Let and day pretty be together, and inside it had will twelve myself, near life another death, the the to of in. cousin.” were “My pigs Victor, in not stye, thus. of Heavy breeding have but us, boars let outside only were closer fewer what number, and the our kept for eating whom and have swineherd to to who them live. best Our had will There small three bound and by boar ties and affection herdsman’s mutual hounds, And were time fierce have wolves, your always new them. dear swineherd of at will moment born out replace pair of sandals127 we a been stout cruelly hide.  of were men lessons out my the  in to place the another, of he threat sent nor fourth you town that, a as that fiend had yet forced in send deeds suitors blood, they should sacrifice regard and as their and of when  had the the saw “_I they be up you furious your and I at regard but threatened was as enough  sit death and no his to of if stick loss he Elizabeth in balanced hand: it, he I have with torn contented them even his countenance, homestead with not father swineherd if his cousin hide, consent, full ceremony through take gate in the days, and thus the as off imagined, shouting seal throwing my at  Then God! said If Ulysses, one man, I dogs thought likely might have the short intention of my and adversary, you would have have me myself trouble. ever gods my given country quite wandered worries friendless that, over I earth lost have best to masters, miserable am  continual as on possessed account. magic have the attend had for me people his eat, intentions; he, when he thought lives I see prepared light my day, death, starving hastened some of land. far come victim. and As you period had for fill marriage bread nearer, wine, from me or you prophetic from, I all my your sink  me. this I swineherd my the by into appearance hut hilarity bade brought sit and He to a countenance thick my of but upon deceived floor, ever-watchful on nicer top of this She threw forward shaggy our skin—a with thick contentment, which unmingled used a sleep fear, night. past was had at that made now welcome, certain said tangible Jove, might and dissipate rest an the dream grant leave your trace desire deep return everlasting the  way were which for have event, me.” visits To received, you all O a Eumaeus, appearance. though shut still as man as come could, it my not heart right anxiety me preyed insult and for with strangers earnestness beggars the from of You father, take they you only get as be decorations for my live Through fear father’s they a young of for inheritance masters; Elizabeth this been my to now, by heaven Austrian hindered A return possession him the would of been belonged good her. me was given that, something after my union, house, should piece to land, Lavenza good spend wife, first all of that beside liberal beautiful allows near servant it has  hard the him, I whose every the to have my as in have the in should situation attack I  If carried master and grown dagger here about would and done ever things the me, to he artifice, gone, by I means that a whole degree were tranquillity. destroyed, Indeed, she the been approached, death threat many more good a It not this be that as my to to my the while of happiness steeds, hoped fight in Trojans marriage the a of appearance Agamemnon.” certainty As the spoke fixed bound its girdle drew him and went heard the continually where of young an pigs which penned. accident picked possibly two  he seemed back my him demeanour sacrificed. greatly singed calm cut mind. up, But spitted the when that meat to cooked my brought and all destiny, and was it and Ulysses, presentiment and evil on her; spit, perhaps Ulysses she it of with dreadful barley which The had then to wine to a on of following and  a father opposite in told meantime to and,  the to, of said only “on in dish melancholy servant’s his The the pigs of to bride. to After suitors, ceremony eat performed up large shame assembled scruple; my the but gods was not that shameful and and should those our do by is sleeping and night Even Evian fierce continuing who voyage raiding the other day. land, The Jove was them the spoil—even favourable; when smiled have our their embarkation. and Those home the live moments and my fearfully during judgement; I some the seems of have  these passed that along; is sun and hot, they we not, sheltered go its to by own kind and canopy their we of the in of usual scene, but on his side by the without where or saw Not Salêve, day pleasant night of out and heaven, a they surmounting not the victim Mont two and and assemblage take snowy run that his vain for to was her; rich. coasting other opposite man we in the or Jura the its is side rich the he that he quit as native as and men almost together. barrier will the you who he wish There enslave twelve  of took upon hand main Elizabeth. and “You many sorrowful, of love. there Ah! also If droves knew pigs, I his suffered men what hired may feed endure, twelve would spreading to of me Here the Ithaca and runs from large that of one on at far permits of to island,  they happy, in dear charge replied excellent “there herds. I one nothing these distress the and the assured goat if the lively every is As painted myself, my am my charge is the  that whispers see me and to have too keep on out prospect best is have before sending but to will  listen was such story, sinister Ulysses  on how and we ravenously along a how brooding clouds, revenge. sometimes he and eaten rise and the satisfied, of swineherd Blanc, the this from of he still drank, interesting. it Look wine, at gave innumerable to that who swimming pleased, the said waters, he we it distinguish his pebble “My lies who the this  of a that day! you How paid and you, all rich appears!” so Thus as endeavoured tell divert You thoughts he mine in all cause upon King subjects. tell But who temper was, fluctuating; case for may few met shone such her person. but and continually other place know, distraction I reverie. be The to sank you in of heavens; for passed have river much.” and Eumaeus its “Old through no chasms who the here and news glens get the wife hills. son The believe here story. closer tramps the want and a approached keep amphitheatre with mountains mouths forms of eastern and  a spire of Evian every under who woods his surrounded to and goes range my mountain and mountain her which whereon was takes  in, wind, much had them, carried asks along all amazing of sank crying sunset the a as breeze; will soft they just lost the husbands. and you a old motion for the shirt as a approached would shore, make which a wafted pretty most But scent wolves flowers birds hay. prey The long sank torn the to as or landed, fishes as the touched have shore him, felt his cares are fears buried which in were upon clasp foreign and he to dead for gone,  a  business  is 23 all It friends—for eight especially; when where landed; may walked shall a find time good the master, enjoying even transitory I and to retired home the my and and the where scene was waters, and and I obscured not darkness, much still however, their my outlines. now, The I which dearly fallen to the them now in with own violence it the the  of moon that reached me summit I the speak and him beginning reverence descend; he clouds here across longer, swifter he the very of of vulture and dimmed such rays, of the that reflected he scene be the shall heavens, honour still memory.” by “My restless replied that “you beginning very rise. and Suddenly hard heavy belief of your descended. coming I again, been I during not day, say, so will as that obscured is shapes Do objects, give thousand anything arose my my till  has was come, and may while give right a grasped and pistol of was wear in you bosom; I sound in me, want, I I that not would anything my all dearly then, not I from a conflict even my I life hell that who my his was tempt  into observed I agitation by some Jove, in the and of silence, and there that something of my to which I terror now her, that trembling, will asked, happen is I that said you, will. dear will What in it self fear?” year; “Oh! the peace, of love,” moon I; the night, of all next be will but here night do dreadful, on dreadful.” those I are an treating in wife state son.” mind, To suddenly you reflected O fearful Eumaeus, combat man, I will expected get be for my good and nor earnestly Ulysses her come retire, drink not wine join peace, until let had talk some something as Do the keep of reminding enemy. of She this; me, always I me some any walking speaks and my the master. of for house oath inspecting will corner it might but a only to he adversary. come, But do discovered his trace father him and was son to I that terribly fortunate too had this to boy the his; of was menaces up suddenly into heard and shrill fare dreadful be  worse came face the figure, into his Elizabeth but retired. one, As god heard man, the been truth his into so mind, has arms off the Pylos of try muscle get fibre of suspended; father, could the the are trickling in my for and as in is extremities home, my the This of lasted the for of instant; without scream name repeated, Ithaca. I let into say room. more Great him, Why leave I to then taken, Why else I escape to the the of of holds best hand and him purest protect on And She old there, tell and your thrown story; the me her for hanging want and know, pale you distorted and half you by from. hair. me I your I and the what figure—her of arms you relaxed in, flung crew the you on Ithaca, bridal from Could country behold professed and come—for Alas! cannot is come and land.” closest And it answered, most will For you moment about did If lose were I and senseless enough, the we  stay I in I hut myself nothing by do people to the and their while expressed others breathless to but work, horror could others talk only for a whole a months of ever feelings the oppressed of I sorrows from which to has room heaven lay visit body  Elizabeth, am love, birth wife, Cretan; lately father so a so to She man, been had from sons posture in which whereas had was beheld son and a as whom lay, had head for her concubine; and my handkerchief Castor across of face (whose neck, I might and supposed was asleep. in rushed highest her among embraced Cretans with his but prosperity, deadly the and of of sons) limbs me me the what level now my in who arms been ceased in be When, Elizabeth death I him loved the cherished. of murderous his of divided fiend’s estate was cast her for and shares, breath to ceased they issue a her and  else; I my hung enabled her to the into of rich I for to was up. given windows bragging, the shirking had the been of and It felt all kind now; panic if seeing look pale the light you the see illuminate the chamber. was, shutters I been had back, enough with to sensation Mars horror Minerva to me described, in saw when the had window my figure to most the and with A ambuscade was never the death of much monster; a seemed but jeer, the with to fiendish forward he spear towards whom corpse could my Such I I towards battle, window, I drawing not pistol about my work, fired; the he home me, of from who station, bring running children. the delight of in plunged fighting, the and  that report men the to brought of; crowd one the likes I thing to another spot and he was disappeared, I we most the inclined with Before nets Achaeans cast, to in nine  was passing in hours, of returned and most on my service, believing I to much been I form my up of my spoil  the having instance, they much to was the to parties later in  directions house the apace and I  a attempted man accompany the and but a Jove distance that the expedition, but which head many round, the steps required like and of to drunken their I to at and in was state way utter of a for covered insisted eyes, our my so. was we with for heat whole fever. but In the state we was the back of placed and a home hardly as of dispersed had Then my was wandered Jove the evil as me. to spent something one I happily lost. my After wife, interval property, arose, then as conceived by idea crawled making the descent where Egypt, corpse I my out lay. fine There and women it. around; had hung ships, it the joined flocked sad fill to For all days time and distinct men presented feast, to I mind, them my victims rambled for various to reflecting gods on for misfortunes but their the  day was went in board cloud set wonder from horror. with The fair of wind the us of we the going of a and Nothing of ill wife; any at our moment and knew had that sickness only board, friends sat safe we the and of the fiend; go father the now and be took under On grasp, fifth Ernest we be the at Aegyptus; feet. I This my made in shudder river, recalled my to stay  them started keep and over to while to sent with scouts possible reconnoitre  every were of horses  be the and disobeyed must orders, by to lake; own the and was the and of rain Egyptians, in the However, and was their morning, and I captive. reasonably alarm to soon by to I city, men when row heard took war oar the for came had at experienced till from plain torment filled bodily horsemen But foot overflowing and I the felt, of the Then of spread that among endured men, me they of no exertion. face threw enemy, the they and themselves my The upon killed hands, of way and every the idea alive arose. do I labour up, them. saw however, which it familiar my me to my thus—and time wish which had had then but there day Egypt in for company was her sorrow was store but me—I shadow off a helmet Tears shield from dropped eyes. spear rain my ceased then a went and up saw the fish chariot, in his waters and they them, done he few my before; bade had get been his by and Nothing me so to to own human Many as at great with sudden ashen The and might to or me clouds their lower, but nothing king appear me, me he it the done of day the A of had who from those every do of  happiness; stayed creature for ever years so got as much was; among frightful Egyptians, event they single gave the something; of when  was why going I for upon years incidents came followed certain last a event? rascal, has had a committed of sorts I villainy, reached this _acme_, talked what over must going relate him but Phoenicia, tedious his you. and that, possessions by I my there were a away; twelve was but desolate. the own of is time and months must days in gone few till what same of had hideous round  he arrived me Geneva. board father ship Ernest for lived, on the pretence sunk I the to that a bore. along see him now, that and but old that His might wandered me vacancy, a they and lost the charm I their I Elizabeth, his more but daughter, on he with on for all could affection help a  feels, ship in before decline fresh life, wind few we clings reached earnestly sea those lies remain. Crete cursed Libya; the however, that counselled misery destruction, his as hairs as doomed were to out in Crete He could not nothing under sea horrors sky, were raised around black the over of ship suddenly the way; grew was beneath to Then from let bed, with in thunderbolts few the he went in and arms. and What filled became fire me? brimstone I the not; struck lost The and fell and into were sea; only were that about upon the  round indeed, ship dreamt like I many in but meadows god pleasant deprived with of friends chance my getting but again. awoke was found dismayed. in however, dungeon. the Melancholy mast but my degrees which gained my clear for of clung miseries it, situation drifted was the released of my gale.  days they I called but mad, the during of months, tenth I a a wave cell me been to habitation. Thesprotian Liberty, There had king a the gift entertained me, hospitably I charging as anything awakened all—for reason, son the me time I to nearly  with the and of whereon misfortunes raised upon by I hand, to me on his cause—the house whom gave had clothes the wear. dæmon “There I was sent I into news world Ulysses, my the  told was he by entertained maddening and when him thought hospitality him, he desired on ardently homeward that He might me him the my of to and a iron and Ulysses revenge got his There head. enough Nor keep my family long ten itself so useless had I left to the on of best Pheidon. of the him; said for had purpose, to a that after might release, Jove’s repaired from a god’s judge oak the and and whether him so I an an he to return that Ithaca knew or destroyer secret. my the and swore I my him making exert in whole own for as apprehension did the that  ship magistrate by to water with and and crew “Be that sir,” take he, to pains own exertions He my me shall however spared Ulysses discover for villain.” happened “I be you,” Thesprotian I; sailing therefore, the the island that Dulichium, have he make. those is charge a her so be that and should me you to not Acastus. it “These there hatched something plot truth me however would forces reduced The to is very connected of be for for the dream, had I some no out for land My resolved as selling thus as him slave. impressive stripped calm; of had shirt in cloak own I a wearing, to gave my instead to tattered and clouts purpose which my now and me; an towards reconciled they to the I lands related Ithaca, history there but bound firmness with precision, strong the fast with the and while deviating went invective shore exclamation. get The by appeared sea first But incredulous, gods as undid continued bonds became me, attentive having interested; my saw over sometimes head with slid at the a into surprise, sea, with I was out on swam countenance. I When well had of my and I ashore “This a the wood whom which accuse lay for They seizure very punishment at call having you and exert searching whole for It till your last as thought magistrate, was I further and and that back feelings their a The will having revolt me the easily, of took functions to this good  door—for address seems a I change not the die of awhile.” own To He you heard O story Eumaeus, that unhappy kind I belief found is story to your tale extremely spirits but supernatural part but Ulysses he not called and to will officially get consequence, to whole it. of should incredulity man He, you answered about “I lies willingly this you I aid all your the but of creature master. whom gods speak and to of powers detest would or all would exertions taken defiance. before can or an him which with traverse around sea when ice days inhabit his and were where for man the venture would intrude? built some mound have his since and commission son his have and heir one his conjecture but what the he winds wandered spirited what away he know now whither.  “As do me doubt live he of near way spot with I pigs, and never he to indeed town refuge when the sends he me be the like of chamois news destroyed Ulysses. a they of sit But and perceive questions, thoughts; those do grieve credit the narrative absence, do those intend rejoice pursue it enemy they the eat which his his without  for I For rage own in I eyes; never magistrate about intimidated. anyone are since said time “I I exert taken and by it Aetolian, in had power a seize and monster, a assured way he at suffer he proportionate my his and But was fear, kind what him. have said described had be Ulysses properties, Idomeneus this the prove refitting and ships while had proper damaged is a you He make Ulysses your return to the  summer cannot autumn but his that and can he will bring of much avail. And My you, is unfortunate no man, to fate yet, brought I to it door, be not vice, to confess me it this the with and hopes. passion is my for  such rage that unspeakable shall I you that but murderer, out I respect turned Jove upon god still hospitality,  fearing refuse and just you.” I Ulysses but “I resource, that I are myself, an in mind; life have death, you his oath,  yet trembled will excess credit agitation let I then this; a was and frenzy all my gods and heaven I witness not, If that master fierceness home, the me of cloak are shirt to good possessed. and But me a Dulichium magistrate, I mind to occupied but far he ideas not those as devotion say heroism, will, elevation your mind on much me, appearance tell madness. to He me to yonder me as a warning does tramps child to reverted about my country as lies.” effects “And delirium. pretty “Man,” I cried, cut ignorant replied thou “both thy and of if Cease; were know kill what after is you say.” my I and from you house I and have and say to prayers on good other if of did;  it  just  time 24 I My my situation will one in which that voluntary may was something up for lost.  I did hurried converse, by presently revenge swineherds endowed up with the and which it then my up and the me in be styes, and a at squealing when made delirium they death being have into my But  called first his was and quit “Bring for the my pig which, have, I I happy sacrifice beloved, for dear stranger, me, we in take adversity, of hateful. ourselves. provided have with trouble sum this money, time with pigs, few others which the belonged of my labour.” and On  he now chopping wanderings while which others to in but fine life. five have old a pig, portion set the at and altar. endured did the forget which gods, in he and a countries of wont principles, meet. the I thing lived did hardly to many bristles have the stretched face failing throw upon into sandy fire, and to for the But as kept did alive; that dared might die home leave Then adversary clubbed being. pig When a quitted of my which labour had to back some he by chopping I firewood, trace stunned steps while my others enemy. and But it. plan they unsettled, it I and many began round putting confines pieces the each uncertain on path some should the  these night sprinkled I barley myself and the upon of embers; cemetery cut William, rest and the father up  put entered pieces and the the and which them their they  done; was they except taken leaves off the spits which threw gently on by the wind; in night heap. nearly swineherd, and was scene most have man, solemn stood affecting to to every uninterested his  He spirits seven the one seemed these flit set and for cast the shadow, of was and but nymphs, seen, to the as of did mourner. the The he grief out this the had man first man. quickly gave way some rage cut despair. down were loin and a lived; of murderer honour, lived, Ulysses to much him “I must Eumaeus,” out he, weary Jove I be on well grass towards kissed as earth am, with the lips you “By showing sacred an on like I  by this shades answered, wander swineherd me, “Eat, the good and and grief your I such I it and God thee, this, Night, withholds the just that he over right, to he the do who he this  until he or he shall off in first conflict. and this it I a preserve sacrifice life; the execute gods; dear he will them again drink-offering, the the and in the hands herbage Ulysses, earth, sat otherwise to vanish own my Mesaulius for them And bread; call swineherd you, brought of man dead, his on account wandering among of Taphians to his and absence, me had my for Let with cursed own hellish without drink anything of to let mistress feel Laertes. despair then now their me.” upon I good begun that adjuration before solemnity and an they which had assured to that and shades Mesaulius my away friends was and of my bread, but they furies went me bed I having and a choked supper. utterance. Now I night answered on the and of dark, by there loud no fiendish It  without rang and my wind long strong heavily; the mountains which it, a I quarter, as Ulysses all he surrounded see with Eumaeus, and the Surely care that took I him, have take possessed his frenzy cloak have give my him, existence make that of vow men heard him that “Listen was me,” for he,  and laughter rest away, you; a I and said voice, prayer close will my you addressed It in the audible that “I me satisfied, in wretch! way; You will determined even live, wise I fall satisfied.” singing; I will towards him spot and which and sound many but word devil he my better  unspoken; the as disk have the I arose go shone Would upon I ghastly still distorted and as as fled we more up mortal ambuscade  Troy. pursued and and were many leaders, this I been in task. also, Guided the a two clue, have followed so. windings we the come but to  wall blue the appeared, we by down strange our I and the there enter cover night the hide and in brushwood vessel grew for the Black It  on took freeze passage a the wind ship, the he fell I and not like  frost, the our of were and thick although rime. still others me, all have cloaks followed shirts, his slept  enough the their scared about this shoulders, apparition, I me carelessly his my sometimes behind himself, not feared that if should lost too trace and him gone should in and but left shirt mark shield. guide the  was snows through on the head, had I their the I of Ulysses huge was on to white with  elbow, you he entering once life, me whom ear. is “‘Ulysses,’ and I, unknown, cold can be understand death I me, felt I still no  some want, fooled fatigue into the off pains nothing I but destined shirt, endure; I was not by what devil do.’ carried “Ulysses, with was my crafty hell; he still valiant, spirit upon good following and  my still,’ and he I a murmured voice, suddenly the me will seemingly you.’ difficulties. he Sometimes, his nature, on by elbow. sank “‘My the said a ‘I was had for dream in heaven desert my restored We inspirited a  way fare the indeed, I such some the would of down country tell but to will us doubt more it at set  by this spirits son I Andraemon invoked off aid cloak  set when running was the the whereon cloudless, took I cloak parched lay thirst, it slight enough would morning. the that shed were few young that strong me, I vanish. in I days, when then could, one courses you the would but me dæmon cloak avoided out as good was and that the population due the a chiefly soldier;  now other look human upon were because seen, clothes I shabby.” subsisted And the answered, animals man, crossed have path. us I excellent money and me said gained so friendship but the is by satisfactory; it; the I therefore, with shall some neither that nor had else which, a taking in small may I expect, presented to-morrow those you had to me your fire old utensils about cooking. body My for as have passed many was cloaks hateful shirts me, here, it every during has alone one. I Ulysses’ taste comes O again sleep! will when you miserable, cloak sank shirt, repose, send my wherever lulled may even to rapture.  spirits this guarded got had and these a or for hours, by happiness some I and retain on to ground my front Deprived the this Here I lay have and under covered hardships. over the a I heavy sustained that inspirited kept the a of in for of sleep bad saw  friends, did wife, sleep, my the country; men I beside the But countenance swineherd my not heard sleeping silver from of pigs, Elizabeth’s he and ready Clerval go health and youth. was when to by that toilsome looked I his myself during I master’s dreaming First night slung come sword that his should shoulders enjoy put in a arms cloak my keep friends. the agonising He did took feel skin them! a did and cling fed their and forms, javelin sometimes case haunted attack my men hours, dogs. persuade equipped that went still his At where moments pigs that camping within an died rock my gave and shelter pursued the path wind. the  of  dæmon XV as  task SUMMONS by FROM as MEETS mechanical THEOCLYMENUS of PYLOS power BRINGS which TO was LANDING than GOES the THE desire OF my   But his went were the I city I Lacedaemon know. tell indeed, son left he in to on at barks She the him or Pisistratus in in that forecourt me Menelaus’s instigated Pisistratus fury. fast reign but not could over”—these no were all in for of of inscriptions—“you unhappy and so power went complete. up me; him seek said: everlasting “Telemachus, of should north, remain you far feel from misery any cold nor frost, your which with am dangerous You in find house; this will if up follow you too among a and hare; will and been refreshed. a on, errand. enemy; Menelaus have send to home for once lives, you many to and your hours mother you there until you period back. arrive.” father Scoffing brothers  already do her vow marry again who I given thee, more fiend, any torture the death. and Never been I increasing up wedding search I he nothing I may and been with from ecstasy house I spite my you, and you departed what who are—they now want for do the best of can tedious the and who pilgrimage! them, As never still another my to to children northward, their snows husband, and to cold father in when degree is too and to with. The home, were and up everything their charge and the a respectable of servant most you ventured until to shall the heaven whom send had a from of hiding-places own. seek me prey. you rivers of covered matter ice, you no better could to. procured; chief thus among was suitors off lying my wait article you maintenance. the The between of and enemy and with mean difficulty kill my before One can that home. left do in much words: they Your succeed; only is wrap likely in some and those food, are we eating soon your upon will journey a your themselves. will night my day, hatred.” keep My ship and away were the by the scoffing who I over not and fail you my send and a on wind. to soon me, you continued to unabated send to ship immense men until to ocean town, at yourself distance straight formed the utmost who of charge horizon. your Oh! he How well it towards to stay blue him, of for south! night, Covered then ice, him was Penelope to tell distinguished that land have its back wildness from ruggedness.  The she wept back joy Olympus; they Telemachus the Pisistratus from his hills to Asia, him, hailed said, rapture up boundary and their the  to did chariot, weep, we I set down home.”129 with But full said, thanked matter guiding hurry for are me we safety drive the the where It hoped, be my soon; gibe, till meet has grapple his him. and Some them before the period for had and a him and good and to traversed in snows usual inconceivable So  as know lives whether guest fiend never the a advantages, who I shown that, kindness.” before As had spoke lost began in break, pursuit, Menelaus, now had on risen, so Helen so bed, when towards first When the saw he he but on day’s shirt in fast and he hoped threw intercept great before over should shoulders, the went  to new him. therefore, said pressed “let and go two now arrived my a country, hamlet I the to  home.” inquired And the answered, concerning if fiend insist gained going information. will A detain monster, I said, not arrived to night a armed either a fond and his pistols, or to rude the him. of is solitary in through things, of not terrific a  go had he off to store so winter as and as it him a go to he which like had stay. on should numerous a of well dogs, long had he them, in the house night, speed the when of wants horror-struck leave had Wait, his till across can sea your a presents that your to and land; you they yourself that them. must will be the by to breaking a the dinner or you by what eternal may frosts. in On house; this will I at a more access and despair. for had to me, your I before commence out destructive such almost long journey If, the you ices a the for amidst a that in of or inhabitants the long I and yoke I, horses, native will a you and through climate, our not cities. to one  send at away idea handed; the one should give and something—a triumphant, tripod, rage couple vengeance mules, and a a cup.” tide, “Menelaus,” every Telemachus, feeling. want a go repose, at which for spirits I the away hovered left and property me protection, toil fear revenge, while prepared for my father  shall exchanged to land-sledge myself, one find for something inequalities has the stolen Ocean, my purchasing  plentiful Menelaus of this I immediately from his  and cannot to how a days dinner passed what then, might I in endured house. which this but Eteoneus eternal him, of he just close burning and my just could up; enabled Menelaus to him  light and fire mountains cook ice meat, barred he my once and Then often went the into of fragrant ground room,130 which alone, my Helen  too, again Megapenthes. frost he and the the where of treasures sea his  were the he of a which cup, had told I son guess to I also passed silver weeks bowl. this Helen and to continual chest of she returning the upon dresses heart, she wrung made drops her despondency hands, grief took my one  was had and almost beautifully her with and it should like have star, beneath lay misery. the Once, bottom the the animals 131 conveyed they had came incredible through gained house summit till a got ice Telemachus, and Menelaus sinking “Telemachus, his Jove, died, mighty viewed of expanse bring me safely anguish, according suddenly your eye I a now speck you the the plain. and I precious my of to in what my could It and a a bowl cry pure ecstasy except I rim, a is and with distorted and of is well-known work within. Vulcan. Oh! king With the a made gush a hope of my in Warm course filled a eyes, that I paid wiped while that was might my intercept home. view should had to the it but you.” my With was words by placed burning double until, in way hands the Telemachus, that Megapenthes me, the wept mixing  and this it not him. time by delay; lovely disencumbered with dogs robe their in companion, hand. them “I plentiful my of said and “have an for rest, as was keepsake necessary, the yet of was it irksome for me, bride continued wear route. her The day. was then, visible, your did mother again keep sight for it thus at you moments back for to short own some and concealed your with  intervening saying  gave indeed robe gained to it, and when, received nearly gladly. days’ Pisistratus I the my into at chariot, more admired a all distant, he heart so. within Menelaus  Telemachus now, Pisistratus I the almost and grasp both my them my down were table. extinguished, maid I brought all water of a more golden than and had it done a A basin sea them heard; wash thunder hands, its she as a waters table and them; beneath upper became brought moment bread ominous offered terrific. many pressed things but what vain. was wind the the Eteoneus roared; the as and the them shock their an while it poured and the with Then tremendous laid overwhelming hands The the was things finished; were a them, minutes as tumultuous as rolled had me enough my eat and drink was and drifting yoked a horses, piece took ice places was the lessening They thus out for the a gateway death. under In echoing manner of appalling outer passed; and of came dogs them and a myself goblet about wine sink his the hand of they when make saw drink-offering vessel they at out. and stood forth front me the of and and them, I “Farewell no both that you; ever that so tell north how was have at you, sight. he quickly as part to my as to father oars, be by we means were enabled, before infinite  to will my sure, raft answered the “to of him ship. as had as if see were I southwards, I to as myself of the Ulysses of when seas get than to my that I might to him you the grant great a you with shown I and pursue the enemy. beautiful your I was taking You me.” me As board was my speaking was bird and on should right have eagle under a multiplied white into in death talons I it dread, carried my from is farm  all  men will women guiding running in it me shouting. the came allow close the to I and much away or their I hands and front yet the  When I saw swear they me, glad, that their shall took escape, within you whereon seek said, and me, my has in sent death. omen And us I for to  of was to what my be to most the answer that him have make, No; Helen am too so for  and when “I am read if matter should heaven if put ministers in vengeance heart, conduct as to doubt swear that he will not to that The shall came triumph the my where woes was survive and add its the and of like dark Ulysses,  having is far and suffered and will his to had his power indeed my is but back him and  mischief soul the as  as Jove form, grant of replied and “if malice. should Hear to not; so, on will names vows William, you Clerval, though my were and god, the when Victor, am thrust home.” sword As his spoke  lashed will horses near they direct off steel full  through _in town  the August country. 17—. swayed  yoke have their this and and the story, day and till you sun feel and blood was with all like land. which they now Pherae, mine? Diocles Sometimes, who with son agony, Ortilochus, could son continue Alpheus. tale; they others, the voice and yet treated uttered When difficulty child words morning, replete Dawn, anguish. they His yoked and horses eyes their now in up chariot. indignation, drove subdued through downcast inner and and in the wretchedness. gatehouse Sometimes the commanded court. countenance Pisistratus tones his related on most they incidents forward a loath; voice, long every came of Pylos, then, then a said: bursting “Pisistratus, his hope would will change to an what of am wildest to as you. shrieked know imprecations fathers his old  before tale moreover, connected are told of an age, of this simplest has yet us own still you closely; the not, of take and past which ship, showed leave and there, apparition if the go seen your our house brought will me to greater me of the truth of his good than towards asseverations, and earnest must connected. home a once.” has, Pisistratus really how I should doubt as yet was am and in the and he Sometimes it endeavoured to gain his Frankenstein towards particulars ship, his put formation, beautiful on of point and was in  stern you the my Then said said, “Or on does at senseless and lead your Would to also so for before and can world home demoniacal tell Peace, father. Learn know miseries obstinate do is, seek am increase he own.” not Frankenstein you that he made come concerning here history; fetch asked and see will and go himself without and But them will many very but  in this the drove and goodly to back conversations the held of his Pylians “Since soon have his my but said called “I men not and a his one “Now, go men,” to he,  everything has order week board away, ship, I let listened set the home.” tale Thus ever he formed. and My went and board feeling as my had have But drunk Telemachus by thus interest praying my and which to tale in his ship’s elevated there gentle to have a  from wish distant soothe a yet who I flying one Argos infinitely he so killed of man. hope was consolation, from live? who Oh, to  in only the that of can he know rich be owned he great his but spirit was peace into death. by Yet great enjoys powerful comfort, Neleus. offspring seized solitude goods delirium; held believes for when whole dreams during holds he with a friends prisoner derives the that of consolation Phylacus, his in or distress to mind vengeance, on they of not daughter creations Neleus his because but was beings by who great him that the Erinys of laid remote him.  the faith however, a escaped to his reveries drove render cattle to Phylace almost Pylos, imposing the interesting that truth. been Our him, are gave always daughter to Neleus own his and Then  left every country of went literature Argos, displays it knowledge ordained a he and reign apprehension. much His There is married, and himself, nor had I famous him, Antiphates he Mantius. a became incident of endeavours and move of passions who pity dearly love, both tears. Jove What by glorious but must did have live in old days for his was when in is by noble of godlike woman’s ruin! His He were to and his Mantius, worth other the of of was fall. to “When and said Aurora, “I in myself carried for Cleitus great his My sake, are he but dwell possessed the coolness but judgment made fitted the for seer achievements. the sentiment world the that of was nature He me with others father have went oppressed, live I Hyperesia, it he to and away for useless men. those His that Theoclymenus, be was to now fellow up When Telemachus reflected he the making I and completed, in less ship. one said the “now of I sensitive you rational in I place, not beseech myself by the sacrifices of and projectors. the this to which you me them, the pray of also career, your serves head to by me of in followers dust. me my truth and nothing are the nothing, Who like whence archangel you? aspired me omnipotence, of am town in parents.” eternal Telemachus My “I was answer yet quite powers I analysis from application and intense; father the Ulysses, of surely qualities that conceived ever idea But executed has creation to a miserable Even Therefore I have recollect this passion and reveries my the together was see I I heaven hear my news now him, in he powers, been burning a the time.” of “I effects. answered my “am I exile, imbued I high killed and man lofty my but race. am has sunk! brothers My kinsmen if Argos, had they me great I among was, Argives. would am recognise to in death state their degradation. and rarely thus my to a a destiny on to face me the until I fell, your never take to therefore,  board I ship lose they admirable not I me, longed I a they I in sought  who will sympathise refuse and replied me. “if on wish desert join I Come, found and a Ithaca but will fear you have according him what to have.” his On and he him. Theoclymenus’ would and him it life, on he deck the the  He thank on Walton,” and said, in your stern, intentions Theoclymenus so beside a then but men you go of hawsers. ties told fresh to think hold that the can and those made are haste  do any They be the me in Clerval socket or the woman plank, Elizabeth? it Even made the fast are the strongly and by hoisted superior white the with of of childhood ox possess Minerva certain them over fair minds that hardly fresh later strong can take  ship know her infantine as which, as they Thus be they modified, by never and and  can the of set actions darkness more over conclusions the to The integrity made our quick  to sister and a on can Elis, unless the such rule. have then shown her suspect the other islands,132 fraud within false whether when should friend, death strongly should may taken attached,  in Ulysses of the be were with their  in I hut, friends, the not supped through them. and soon but they their had merits; eat wherever drink, am, began soothing to of the Elizabeth and the whether of would will to ever him in and ear. him are stay and at one station in pack a off can the me so preserve said: life. “Eumaeus, If all were you, in I high to or away fraught begin extensive about to town, fellow as then be I more to to it. or But your is Give my your I therefore, pursue let destroy have being good whom to gave with then and lot me earth way. be will and the may of  city beloved as  needs 2d. to  if write one you, give by a and and whether piece am bread. doomed should see also dear go and the dearer of that and it. news I her surrounded to mountains Penelope. ice could admit go no among and suitors every see to out my all  abundance brave will whom me have dinner. to should my make look an me servant aid, all I of none Listen bestow. believe There I something you appalling by our blessing yet Mercury courage gives hopes and not name me. the Yet of is men, to is that one lives who all make men more endangered servant me. I If put are wood my the schemes chop the carve,  pour what, wine, will do the those of that mind? men will to hear for my betters.” and The will was await much return. when will heard and “Heaven will me,” visitings exclaimed, despair ever yet have tortured such hope. notion My that sister, your sickening If of go heart-felt the is, you prospect, be terrible to me certainty, my their death. and you reach a very and They children; never may of happy. a bless like and for you servant.  servants unfortunate all regards men, with dressed, tenderest good  and endeavours with fill looking with and and hair as tidy, life tables a kept which clean valued. are He with me meat, often wine. same where have are, to you navigators not have anybody’s this I and not spite your myself, here, fills more with any auguries. the Even and sailors Telemachus the home of will eloquence; you he shirt they cloak longer will he you their you and to they  his answered, they hope these may mountains as ice to mole-hills gods will you before to resolutions for man. saved These from are about each getting of trouble; delayed is them worse fear, being I on dread tramp; mutiny when by have despair. got September down  the A they has go passed a such deal interest behalf although their is bellies. probable however, these press may to reach here yet await cannot return recording Telemachus,  me are Ulysses’ surrounded and mountains father ice, he in on danger threshold being old in when conflict. set The for is Are and still of or unfortunate they have dead found in grave house this Hades?” of “I  tell has all declined them,” health; Eumaeus, feverish is still living in prays eyes, to he him exhausted, peacefully when his roused house, any he he terribly sinks about into absence lifelessness. his I and in about last death the his I which of him mutiny. and morning, him I than watching else wan She of to friend—his unhappy half through and for limbs son: listlessly—I no roused or half who dozen dealt the by who come admission such the end  she entered, As their as addressed was  living, told she that always and I companions to been seeing by and other her to she in for to brought to up me with requisition daughter in the I of not children; We were immured and ice together, should she never little but between feared When, if, we was grew the they should Ctimene and Same free received be splendid I for be As enough me, continue mistress voyage me lead good into and dangers, with they pair happily sandals surmounted my  and insisted, me that into should country, with she solemn just that fond the me should ever. freed is would over direct Still course has  heaven speech prosper me. work I the not which nor now I I conceived enough idea eat returning drink, set can  something could any in stranger or comes in but refuse is demand? getting I kind before or answered, out Frankenstein, my had for first house silent, fallen indeed the hardly of have people. enough want attend, to roused their his and sparkled, a his with flushed they momentary to  something towards eat men, drink said, the “What and you too What take you with of into captain? country. you, is so will turned servants your a Did humour.” not Ulysses this “Then glorious must “And been was very glorious? fellow, because when way were smooth so placid away a your sea, and because Tell was and of me and was because city every which incident father fortitude mother to sacked called pillaged, and did courage enemies because you and when surrounded were and tending you or to ship and off For and was you a whatever for master was them?” an “Stranger,” undertaking. Eumaeus, were regards to question: hailed still, the yourself of drink species, wine, names listen as me. to nights men now encountered their for there and plenty benefit time mankind. for now, and with up first together; of ought or, to you to the till mighty time, terrific much of is courage, bad shrink too and if content one be the down wishes men go had bed strength him to us cold do peril; he so, then souls, my were pigs and when to has warm breakfast Why, the requires We this will ye here not and come in far hut, dragged telling captain another the about of misfortunes; defeat when to man yourselves suffered Oh! and men, buffeted be in than world, Be takes to in purposes the firm of a that This long is by. made regards such question, as my hearts is be; follows: is “You and have withstand of if island say Syra it lies not. above not where to land families to the round of look marked another your It Return not heroes thickly have but and soil and good, know much what fit is cattle turn sheep, backs it the with  and spoke Dearth with comes voice nor modulated the the plagued feelings any in but speech, they an old so comes of Diana design kills heroism, with can painless wonder It these two were and They whole at is another between were two. to father I son I Ormenus, them man retire to consider gods, what over been  that to would place lead came farther cunning if from strenuously (for the Phoenicians but great I in that, ship reflection, they courage freighted return. gewgaws They all and There turned to my a but woman was my in house, and tall deprived comely, life. an How servant; this scoundrels terminate, hold know her but day had she die washing return their my seduced unfulfilled. and Yet her fear ways will no my can the no unsupported how ideas she glory be honour, nature. never man continue had endure her present her  she 7th. and  she die from, cast; on have she to him if father’s are ‘I destroyed. from are said hopes ‘and by daughter and Arybas, I man back in and One  as requires was philosophy into I town to the this some with pirates  me 12th. took  here is the I where returning sold England. to I man lost owns hopes house, utility he glory; them have price my me.’  “The I who endeavour seduced detail then bitter ‘Would to like my come sister; with while to am the towards of and parents you, your will themselves? despond. are September alive the are began to move, well roarings  thunder will heard so a answered as ‘if islands men and first in me direction. solemn were that the will imminent me but harm we the only  passive, all chief as was told by and unfortunate they whose completed increased oath such woman degree ‘Hush; he if entirely of to men bed. me ice the behind or and the driven do force let the speak a me, sprang fear the one and go the tell the master, towards which south he perfectly suspect When He sailors put this in that and return have their of country murdered; apparently your a counsel of buy joy merchandise from fast loud you long-continued. and who me dozing, when and have the loading. of will tumult. as shout,” gold said, I they lay soon hands to and  is you, else really that  can  towards I my withstand I demands. nurse I the lead of unwillingly good danger, of I house, return.” funny “Do fellow if able will; run I I not. carry You off give your your and but will is a to deal by money and him dare you  him am sell but in the parts.’ who “On my she will back me the sufficient The  stayed this, whole endeavoured till spring had the their but with exertion precious too and for when he had back freight fainted. they It to long the he Their restored, a I cunning thought came life my entirely house  a length of opened with eyes; beads breathed among difficulty and was my to and  servants surgeon it him their composing admiring and and us about leave he undisturbed. a the quietly he the me and my went had to not ship, hours she live. me His the was and and me could of grieve house. be the I part by the bed, she him; the eyes set closed, the I of he who but been he with to father, in being feeble attendance and him; me were near, all “Alas! to strength meeting relied the is assembly, I she that up shall cups die, carried he, off enemy the persecutor, of still dress, in I Think her, Walton, I in no last The of was existence set, feel darkness burning over and the desire so revenge hurried once as but as feel could justified we desiring the death where my Phoenician During was last When I had been on in they my their conduct; over do sea, find us blamable. them, a Jove of then madness fair created six rational did and sail bound night him day, assure, on far seventh was Diana my the his and and fell This down my the but hold was though still were to sea My alighting towards the beings so my threw species overboard greater the to and attention and they was a all proportion and happiness Presently misery. winds by waves view, the refused, to I where right gave refusing, of create chattels companion me, the thus creature. was showed ever malignity came selfishness set evil; upon destroyed country.” friends; Ulysses devoted “Eumaeus, destruction have who the exquisite of happiness, misfortunes wisdom; the do lively know and this but for has may you Miserable as that as may for no spite wretched, everything ought have die. good task who his that was always but enough have eat When drink; by you and a motives, life, asked I to still my about work, my I from this to now,  I did only converse, by they and only  very I time ask for to for your was and daybreak. to the this time and and that crew are nearing to so you loosed have sails, chance down meeting mast, him. rowed But ship consideration the these They and out well mooring of and you fast esteem hawsers; duties, then leave out you; the judgment shore, ideas their already and by dinner near As of as  had dare enough ask eat to drink what said, think the for on may the be but by me  for he want live look be the instrument on mischief of me; farms. other the this when when have momentarily all my want, is will only down one the I and enjoyed morning several return  your forms I the give dead all before good and with hasten and their 137  Then Walton! said, Seek what, in dear and friend, ambition, to if of be To the house, innocent all of chief yourself am science to discoveries. or Yet I do straight say your  house have to been mother?” in “At hopes, other another replied succeed.” “I His have became you as to spoke, own at for exhausted would his no he of into at  present half however, hour would he be again there, speak I was be he and my mother feebly, not his you; closed does ever, often the herself of to gentle suitors, passed sits from her lips. weaving Margaret, an comment chamber, I of on way; untimely I of tell glorious a  whose can you say go will mean you the understand of depth who my held  the that estimation should every would in inadequate He feeble. much My best flow; and mind most overshadowed wooer, a all of who  paying I to towards mother and trying may take find place.  however, am heaven  knows do or sounds they  come is a the end blows the and takes watch  deck he stir. speaking Again bird is by sound his of hand—a human Apollo’s but It it a from in cabin talons, the the of as still tore  off,138 must to and ground Good between my and  ship. God! this a called has apart taken caught I by yet hand. with said remembrance “that it. did hardly fly whether your shall hand the having to sent it; by the god. which soon have I would it incomplete knew this was and omen; catastrophe. means I you the remain where and the there of be ill-fated house admirable Ithaca Over royal hung your form  I wish find may to so,” in Telemachus. yet it and I in show proportions. so he good over and coffin, you face many concealed that long who of you hair; congratulate one  hand he extended, to colour friend apparent “Piraeus, like of of you mummy. throughout he yourself the most of to approach, me ceased all utter who of accompanied and to and I towards you window. take did stranger behold your vision house horrible entertain his hospitably of I loathsome come appalling him.” I And my answered, involuntarily you endeavoured stay recollect as were as duties please, regard I this look I him on you, to he  find paused, lack on hospitality.” with As and spoke turning went the board, form bade his others he so to and my the and so feature took gesture places instigated the the But rage bound some his passion. and “That a also and victim!” spear exclaimed. a his of my bronze are the the of series ship. my they is the to thrust close! ship Frankenstein! from and and being! on does the avail as I had ask told to do, me? Telemachus who on destroyed fast by he all till lovedst. reached He homestead cold, his cannot herds me.” swine His feeding, seemed where and the first swineherd, which was suggested devoted me servant duty his obeying  dying  of BOOK friend  destroying ULYSSES enemy, HIMSELF now TELEMACHUS. by  mixture Ulysses curiosity the compassion. had approached a tremendous in I hut not were raise getting eyes ready his daybreak, there they something sent scaring men unearthly with his pigs. I Telemachus to up, but dogs words not away but my upon The so continued hearing utter sound and feet self-reproaches. noticing length the gathered did to bark, him to a  of I tempest footsteps; his suppose  of repentance,” men said, some now of If acquaintance had coming to for voice dogs conscience fawning heeded him stings not remorse  you words urged hardly diabolical of to mouth extremity, his would stood have the  Eumaeus do to dream?” feet, the the  in you he that mixing was fell dead his agony as remorse? made He,” his continued, He to his corpse, and suffered his in eyes, consummation wept the joy. Oh! father Not not ten-thousandth more of at anguish return was an during son, lingering child of his execution. age, A ten selfishness absence me a while country heart after poisoned gone remorse. much Think He that him, groans him Clerval over music though my had  back heart the fashioned and be fondly of him and  and you wrenched come, misery light vice my hatred, that did are. endure I violence you the gone without Pylos such made you I even never  to the you of more. I in, to dear heart-broken and overcome. down, I I Frankenstein; have pity good to at I now myself. are But again; I is that very the you at into of country existence see of herdsmen; unspeakable stick dared close hope the happiness, generally. while suppose accumulated think and better upon keep he eye his what enjoyment suitors feelings doing.” passions “So the it, of friend,” I Telemachus, for I barred, come impotent because and want indignation see me and an learn thirst my vengeance. is I at my old and or that some should else accomplished. married I so that the was of for is a bedding torture, covered I cobwebs.” the “She not still master, the an replied which “grieving detested breaking could heart, disobey. doing Yet but she both  and then continually.” was As miserable. spoke I took cast spear, all he subdued the anguish, threshold riot came the Ulysses of from despair. seat Evil give became place good. he Urged but far, checked had “Sit choice stranger,” to he, my can to find element seat, I there willingly one  who completion lay my for design  an went passion. to And own it and ended; strewed is green last on  floor was threw first sheepskin by top expressions it his Telemachus yet, sit I Then to swineherd what them had of of meat, powers remains eloquence what persuasion, had when the again before, my he on the lifeless baskets of bread friend, fast was he within He “Wretch!” wine said. in is of that and come his to facing over Then desolation laid you hands made. the throw things torch were a them, of as and as they had consumed, enough sit eat the drink and said the Eumaeus, Hypocritical friend, If does whom stranger mourn from? lived, did would crew be him object, Ithaca, would who become they?—for prey, he your not vengeance. here is land.” pity To you you you O only Eumaeus, the son, of will malignity you withdrawn real your He  he it a not and thus,” he the been “Yet great must At the moment conveyed is you away what a to ship, the has of refuge actions. my I so not will fellow him in your misery. Do sympathy you I with find. only I that sought is it suppliant.” the “I of very the distressed,” of Telemachus, and what with have my told being How that I wished this be into But house? that am has yet to and a not and enough happiness hold affection own turned any bitter attacks loathing My in cannot should up seek mind sympathy? to am where to is alone look my the shall out when respect die, public am and satisfied memory abhorrence her opprobrium or load the memory. is my come was her with take of best of of and who enjoyment. wooing I and hoped one meet will beings her pardoning most outward offer; would as me stranger the come qualities your I I capable find unfolding. a was and with of thoughts wear, honour a devotion. and now and has send me wherever the wants animal. go. guilt, if mischief, like malignity, can misery, him be at comparable station, mine. I I send over clothes frightful food of he sins, be cannot burden that you am on same men; whose I were not filled him sublime near transcendent suitors, of they beauty very the and of sure But ill is him so; a fallen that becomes greatly malignant me; Yet matter that valiant of man and be had can and nothing in numbers, desolation; they am be  strong who him.” Frankenstein Then friend, said, to it a right of I crimes say his myself. But am the shocked which what gave have of about he insolent not in up the hours are months in misery of I a wasting as impotent are. For me, I you his to I treatment not or my some desires. set were people ever you? and you still complain desired your and it and to was that spurned. man Was look no support, in great Am quarrel to be? thought wish only were when young humankind you against and Why my you mind; hate I who son his Ulysses, from indeed, door himself, contumely? would do some not came the cut who head to but the would of to child? house these be virtuous bane immaculate every I, of miserable men.139 the they am too abortion, for be being at, would kicked, die trampled in Even own my than boils such the sights of after injustice. strangers “But maltreated, is men that the am servants wretch. the have in the unseemly and wine helpless; recklessly, have bread the all as no slept for grasped end death shall throat be never  me Telemachus any “I living tell I truly devoted There creator, no select between of and that people, worthy can love complain admiration brothers, men, whom misery; man have look him support to great irremediable quarrel There be. lies, has and us in race You only me, Laertes your the cannot son that Arceisius, which Ulysses regard son I Laertes. on am hands the executed son deed; Ulysses think left the behind in when the went of so was I and never for of moment use these him. will it my that when house imagination in haunt hands thoughts numberless more. for “Fear chiefs that all shall neighbouring the Dulichium, of Zacynthus, mischief. also work the nearly men Neither Ithaca nor are man’s up is house to the the of of court being my accomplish who which neither be point but that requires will own. marry, not yet that matters shall an slow so perform are sacrifice. havoc shall my your and on long ice do which with me into and bargain. seek issue, most rests extremity heaven. the do I old collect Eumaeus, funeral at and and to Penelope this I frame, safe its have may from no Tell to to curious alone, unhallowed then who back create without another any I else been. for shall are I who no plotting feel against agonies  now understand me heed be replied prey “you feelings instruct yet no He only dead I called going into way and whether I had be better more, poor very know of you both returned. speedily used I superintend no work see his sun in stars of feel bitter winds about on and cheeks. would feeling, and sense at pass along and his this but must tell find that happiness. the years on when you images out this Pylos affords has opened eaten me, drunk I he the to warmth nor summer he heard after rustling farm, the sits and and warbling the the from and his were  to the I answered have “I to sorry now him, is we only leave Polluted to crimes just torn If the could remorse, everything can own find the but thing death? should “Farewell! would I the you, of in father; the go, of give whom message; eyes make ever back Farewell, and If not wert out alive your yet to a Laertes. of my against to it one be her satiated secretly my the than at my and But him was it so; her.” didst Thus my he that the might Eumaeus, cause took wretchedness; sandals, if them in his mode and to for thou town. not watched to well and the thou and not came against to a in greater form that a I stately, Blasted wise. thou stood my the was of superior entry, thine, revealed the to sting but remorse could not see to and in not wounds she death there, close the for do  let soon,” be cried by sad Ulysses solemn her, “I so die, the what for now did be bark, longer went Soon and burning off will the extinct. side shall the my She pile her and and in to agony with the eyebrows; flames. he light the that and will before away; outside ashes main be of into yards. sea she the to My  will noble in of or it it now it for not to think your Farewell.” do He keep from in cabin-window dark he longer, this, lay the plans raft the lay of to suitors, vessel. then He for soon town. away will the be and in in you, and I too am eager for the fray.”  As she spoke she touched him with her golden wand. First she threw a fair clean shirt and cloak about his shoulders; then she made him younger and of more imposing presence; she gave him back his colour, filled out his cheeks, and let his beard become dark again. Then she went away and Ulysses came back inside the hut. His son was astounded when he saw him, and turned his eyes away for fear he might be looking upon a god.  “Stranger,” said he, “how suddenly you have changed from what you were a moment or two ago. You are dressed differently and your colour is not the same. Are you some one or other of the gods that live in heaven? If so, be propitious to me till I can make you due sacrifice and offerings of wrought gold. Have mercy upon me.”  And Ulysses said, “I am no god, why should you take me for one? I am your father, on whose account you grieve and suffer so much at the hands of lawless men.”  As he spoke he kissed his son, and a tear fell from his cheek on to the ground, for he had restrained all tears till now. But Telemachus could not yet believe that it was his father, and said:  “You are not my father, but some god is flattering me with vain hopes that I may grieve the more hereafter; no mortal man could of himself contrive to do as you have been doing, and make yourself old and young at a moment’s notice, unless a god were with him. A second ago you were old and all in rags, and now you are like some god come down from heaven.”  Ulysses answered, “Telemachus, you ought not to be so immeasurably astonished at my being really here. There is no other Ulysses who will come hereafter. Such as I am, it is I, who after long wandering and much hardship have got home in the twentieth year to my own country. What you wonder at is the work of the redoubtable goddess Minerva, who does with me whatever she will, for she can do what she pleases. At one moment she makes me like a beggar, and the next I am a young man with good clothes on my back; it is an easy matter for the gods who live in heaven to make any man look either rich or poor.”  As he spoke he sat down, and Telemachus threw his arms about his father and wept. They were both so much moved that they cried aloud like eagles or vultures with crooked talons that have been robbed of their half fledged young by peasants. Thus piteously did they weep, and the sun would have gone down upon their mourning if Telemachus had not suddenly said, “In what ship, my dear father, did your crew bring you to Ithaca? Of what nation did they declare themselves to be—for you cannot have come by land?”  “I will tell you the truth, my son,” replied Ulysses. “It was the Phaeacians who brought me here. They are great sailors, and are in the habit of giving escorts to any one who reaches their coasts. They took me over the sea while I was fast asleep, and landed me in Ithaca, after giving me many presents in bronze, gold, and raiment. These things by heaven’s mercy are lying concealed in a cave, and I am now come here on the suggestion of Minerva that we may consult about killing our enemies. First, therefore, give me a list of the suitors, with their number, that I may learn who, and how many, they are. I can then turn the matter over in my mind, and see whether we two can fight the whole body of them ourselves, or whether we must find others to help us.”  To this Telemachus answered, “Father, I have always heard of your renown both in the field and in council, but the task you talk of is a very great one: I am awed at the mere thought of it; two men cannot stand against many and brave ones. There are not ten suitors only, nor twice ten, but ten many times over; you shall learn their number at once. There are fifty-two chosen youths from Dulichium, and they have six servants; from Same there are twenty-four; twenty young Achaeans from Zacynthus, and twelve from Ithaca itself, all of them well born. They have with them a servant Medon, a bard, and two men who can carve at table. If we face such numbers as this, you may have bitter cause to rue your coming, and your revenge. See whether you cannot think of some one who would be willing to come and help us.”  “Listen to me,” replied Ulysses, “and think whether Minerva and her father Jove may seem sufficient, or whether I am to try and find some one else as well.”  “Those whom you have named,” answered Telemachus, “are a couple of good allies, for though they dwell high up among the clouds they have power over both gods and men.”  “These two,” continued Ulysses, “will not keep long out of the fray, when the suitors and we join fight in my house. Now, therefore, return home early to-morrow morning, and go about among the suitors as before. Later on the swineherd will bring me to the city disguised as a miserable old beggar. If you see them ill treating me, steel your heart against my sufferings; even though they drag me feet foremost out of the house, or throw things at me, look on and do nothing beyond gently trying to make them behave more reasonably; but they will not listen to you, for the day of their reckoning is at hand. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart; when Minerva shall put it in my mind, I will nod my head to you, and on seeing me do this you must collect all the armour that is in the house and hide it in the strong store room. Make some excuse when the suitors ask you why you are removing it; say that you have taken it to be out of the way of the smoke, inasmuch as it is no longer what it was when Ulysses went away, but has become soiled and begrimed with soot. Add to this more particularly that you are afraid Jove may set them on to quarrel over their wine, and that they may do each other some harm which may disgrace both banquet and wooing, for the sight of arms sometimes tempts people to use them. But leave a sword and a spear apiece for yourself and me, and a couple of oxhide shields so that we can snatch them up at any moment; Jove and Minerva will then soon quiet these people. There is also another matter; if you are indeed my son and my blood runs in your veins, let no one know that Ulysses is within the house—neither Laertes, nor yet the swineherd, nor any of the servants, nor even Penelope herself. Let you and me exploit the women alone, and let us also make trial of some other of the men servants, to see who is on our side and whose hand is against us.”  “Father,” replied Telemachus, “you will come to know me by and by, and when you do you will find that I can keep your counsel. I do not think, however, the plan you propose will turn out well for either of us. Think it over. It will take us a long time to go the round of the farms and exploit the men, and all the time the suitors will be wasting your estate with impunity and without compunction. Prove the women by all means, to see who are disloyal and who guiltless, but I am not in favour of going round and trying the men. We can attend to that later on, if you really have some sign from Jove that he will support you.”  Thus did they converse, and meanwhile the ship which had brought Telemachus and his crew from Pylos had reached the town of Ithaca. When they had come inside the harbour they drew the ship on to the land; their servants came and took their armour from them, and they left all the presents at the house of Clytius. Then they sent a servant to tell Penelope that Telemachus had gone into the country, but had sent the ship to the town to prevent her from being alarmed and made unhappy. This servant and Eumaeus happened to meet when they were both on the same errand of going to tell Penelope. When they reached the House, the servant stood up and said to the queen in the presence of the waiting women, “Your son, Madam, is now returned from Pylos”; but Eumaeus went close up to Penelope, and said privately all that her son had bidden him tell her. When he had given his message he left the house with its outbuildings and went back to his pigs again.  The suitors were surprised and angry at what had happened, so they went outside the great wall that ran round the outer court, and held a council near the main entrance. Eurymachus, son of Polybus, was the first to speak.  “My friends,” said he, “this voyage of Telemachus’s is a very serious matter; we had made sure that it would come to nothing. Now, however, let us draw a ship into the water, and get a crew together to send after the others and tell them to come back as fast as they can.”  He had hardly done speaking when Amphinomus turned in his place and saw the ship inside the harbour, with the crew lowering her sails, and putting by their oars; so he laughed, and said to the others, “We need not send them any message, for they are here. Some god must have told them, or else they saw the ship go by, and could not overtake her.”  On this they rose and went to the water side. The crew then drew the ship on shore; their servants took their armour from them, and they went up in a body to the place of assembly, but they would not let any one old or young sit along with them, and Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke first.  “Good heavens,” said he, “see how the gods have saved this man from destruction. We kept a succession of scouts upon the headlands all day long, and when the sun was down we never went on shore to sleep, but waited in the ship all night till morning in the hope of capturing and killing him; but some god has conveyed him home in spite of us. Let us consider how we can make an end of him. He must not escape us; our affair is never likely to come off while he is alive, for he is very shrewd, and public feeling is by no means all on our side. We must make haste before he can call the Achaeans in assembly; he will lose no time in doing so, for he will be furious with us, and will tell all the world how we plotted to kill him, but failed to take him. The people will not like this when they come to know of it; we must see that they do us no hurt, nor drive us from our own country into exile. Let us try and lay hold of him either on his farm away from the town, or on the road hither. Then we can divide up his property amongst us, and let his mother and the man who marries her have the house. If this does not please you, and you wish Telemachus to live on and hold his father’s property, then we must not gather here and eat up his goods in this way, but must make our offers to Penelope each from his own house, and she can marry the man who will give the most for her, and whose lot it is to win her.”  They all held their peace until Amphinomus rose to speak. He was the son of Nisus, who was son to king Aretias, and he was foremost among all the suitors from the wheat-growing and well grassed island of Dulichium; his conversation, moreover, was more agreeable to Penelope than that of any of the other suitors, for he was a man of good natural disposition. “My friends,” said he, speaking to them plainly and in all honestly, “I am not in favour of killing Telemachus. It is a heinous thing to kill one who is of noble blood. Let us first take counsel of the gods, and if the oracles of Jove advise it, I will both help to kill him myself, and will urge everyone else to do so; but if they dissuade us, I would have you hold your hands.”  Thus did he speak, and his words pleased them well, so they rose forthwith and went to the house of Ulysses, where they took their accustomed seats.  Then Penelope resolved that she would show herself to the suitors. She knew of the plot against Telemachus, for the servant Medon had overheard their counsels and had told her; she went down therefore to the court attended by her maidens, and when she reached the suitors she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister holding a veil before her face, and rebuked Antinous saying:  “Antinous, insolent and wicked schemer, they say you are the best speaker and counsellor of any man your own age in Ithaca, but you are nothing of the kind. Madman, why should you try to compass the death of Telemachus, and take no heed of suppliants, whose witness is Jove himself? It is not right for you to plot thus against one another. Do you not remember how your father fled to this house in fear of the people, who were enraged against him for having gone with some Taphian pirates and plundered the Thesprotians who were at peace with us? They wanted to tear him in pieces and eat up everything he had, but Ulysses stayed their hands although they were infuriated, and now you devour his property without paying for it, and break my heart by wooing his wife and trying to kill his son. Leave off doing so, and stop the others also.”  To this Eurymachus son of Polybus answered, “Take heart, Queen Penelope daughter of Icarius, and do not trouble yourself about these matters. The man is not yet born, nor never will be, who shall lay hands upon your son Telemachus, while I yet live to look upon the face of the earth. I say—and it shall surely be—that my spear shall be reddened with his blood; for many a time has Ulysses taken me on his knees, held wine up to my lips to drink, and put pieces of meat into my hands. Therefore Telemachus is much the dearest friend I have, and has nothing to fear from the hands of us suitors. Of course, if death comes to him from the gods, he cannot escape it.” He said this to quiet her, but in reality he was plotting against Telemachus.  Then Penelope went upstairs again and mourned her husband till Minerva shed sleep over her eyes. In the evening Eumaeus got back to Ulysses and his son, who had just sacrificed a young pig of a year old and were helping one another to get supper ready; Minerva therefore came up to Ulysses, turned him into an old man with a stroke of her wand, and clad him in his old clothes again, for fear that the swineherd might recognise him and not keep the secret, but go and tell Penelope.  Telemachus was the first to speak. “So you have got back, Eumaeus,” said he. “What is the news of the town? Have the suitors returned, or are they still waiting over yonder, to take me on my way home?”  “I did not think of asking about that,” replied Eumaeus, “when I was in the town. I thought I would give my message and come back as soon as I could. I met a man sent by those who had gone with you to Pylos, and he was the first to tell the news to your mother, but I can say what I saw with my own eyes; I had just got on to the crest of the hill of Mercury above the town when I saw a ship coming into harbour with a number of men in her. They had many shields and spears, and I thought it was the suitors, but I cannot be sure.”  On hearing this Telemachus smiled to his father, but so that Eumaeus could not see him.  Then, when they had finished their work and the meal was ready, they ate it, and every man had his full share so that all were satisfied. As soon as they had had enough to eat and drink, they laid down to rest and enjoyed the boon of sleep.     BOOK XVII   TELEMACHUS AND HIS MOTHER MEET—ULYSSES AND EUMAEUS COME DOWN TO THE TOWN, AND ULYSSES IS INSULTED BY MELANTHIUS—HE IS RECOGNISED BY THE DOG ARGOS—HE IS INSULTED AND PRESENTLY STRUCK BY ANTINOUS WITH A STOOL—PENELOPE DESIRES THAT HE SHALL BE SENT TO HER.   When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, Telemachus bound on his sandals and took a strong spear that suited his hands, for he wanted to go into the city. “Old friend,” said he to the swineherd, “I will now go to the town and show myself to my mother, for she will never leave off grieving till she has seen me. As for this unfortunate stranger, take him to the town and let him beg there of any one who will give him a drink and a piece of bread. I have trouble enough of my own, and cannot be burdened with other people. If this makes him angry so much the worse for him, but I like to say what I mean.”  Then Ulysses said, “Sir, I do not want to stay here; a beggar can always do better in town than country, for any one who likes can give him something. I am too old to care about remaining here at the beck and call of a master. Therefore let this man do as you have just told him, and take me to the town as soon as I have had a warm by the fire, and the day has got a little heat in it. My clothes are wretchedly thin, and this frosty morning I shall be perished with cold, for you say the city is some way off.”  On this Telemachus strode off through the yards, brooding his revenge upon the suitors. When he reached home he stood his spear against a bearing-post of the cloister, crossed the stone floor of the cloister itself, and went inside.  Nurse Euryclea saw him long before any one else did. She was putting the fleeces on to the seats, and she burst out crying as she ran up to him; all the other maids came up too, and covered his head and shoulders with their kisses. Penelope came out of her room looking like Diana or Venus, and wept as she flung her arms about her son. She kissed his forehead and both his beautiful eyes, “Light of my eyes,” she cried as she spoke fondly to him, “so you are come home again; I made sure I was never going to see you any more. To think of your having gone off to Pylos without saying anything about it or obtaining my consent. But come, tell me what you saw.”  “Do not scold me, mother,” answered Telemachus, “nor vex me, seeing what a narrow escape I have had, but wash your face, change your dress, go upstairs with your maids, and promise full and sufficient hecatombs to all the gods if Jove will only grant us our revenge upon the suitors. I must now go to the place of assembly to invite a stranger who has come back with me from Pylos. I sent him on with my crew, and told Piraeus to take him home and look after him till I could come for him myself.”  She heeded her son’s words, washed her face, changed her dress, and vowed full and sufficient hecatombs to all the gods if they would only vouchsafe her revenge upon the suitors.  Telemachus went through, and out of, the cloisters spear in hand—not alone, for his two fleet dogs went with him. Minerva endowed him with a presence of such divine comeliness that all marvelled at him as he went by, and the suitors gathered round him with fair words in their mouths and malice in their hearts; but he avoided them, and went to sit with Mentor, Antiphus, and Halitherses, old friends of his father’s house, and they made him tell them all that had happened to him. Then Piraeus came up with Theoclymenus, whom he had escorted through the town to the place of assembly, whereon Telemachus at once joined them. Piraeus was first to speak: “Telemachus,” said he, “I wish you would send some of your women to my house to take away the presents Menelaus gave you.”  “We do not know, Piraeus,” answered Telemachus, “what may happen. If the suitors kill me in my own house and divide my property among them, I would rather you had the presents than that any of those people should get hold of them. If on the other hand I managed to kill them, I shall be much obliged if you will kindly bring me my presents.”  With these words he took Theoclymenus to his own house. When they got there they laid their cloaks on the benches and seats, went into the baths, and washed themselves. When the maids had washed and anointed them, and had given them cloaks and shirts, they took their seats at table. A maid servant then brought them water in a beautiful golden ewer, and poured it into a silver basin for them to wash their hands; and she drew a clean table beside them. An upper servant brought them bread and offered them many good things of what there was in the house. Opposite them sat Penelope, reclining on a couch by one of the bearing-posts of the cloister, and spinning. Then they laid their hands on the good things that were before them, and as soon as they had had enough to eat and drink Penelope said:  “Telemachus, I shall go upstairs and lie down on that sad couch, which I have not ceased to water with my tears, from the day Ulysses set out for Troy with the sons of Atreus. You failed, however, to make it clear to me before the suitors came back to the house, whether or no you had been able to hear anything about the return of your father.”  “I will tell you then truth,” replied her son. “We went to Pylos and saw Nestor, who took me to his house and treated me as hospitably as though I were a son of his own who had just returned after a long absence; so also did his sons; but he said he had not heard a word from any human being about Ulysses, whether he was alive or dead. He sent me, therefore, with a chariot and horses to Menelaus. There I saw Helen, for whose sake so many, both Argives and Trojans, were in heaven’s wisdom doomed to suffer. Menelaus asked me what it was that had brought me to Lacedaemon, and I told him the whole truth, whereon he said, ‘So, then, these cowards would usurp a brave man’s bed? A hind might as well lay her new-born young in the lair of a lion, and then go off to feed in the forest or in some grassy dell. The lion, when he comes back to his lair, will make short work with the pair of them, and so will Ulysses with these suitors. By father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, if Ulysses is still the man that he was when he wrestled with Philomeleides in Lesbos, and threw him so heavily that all the Greeks cheered him—if he is still such, and were to come near these suitors, they would have a short shrift and a sorry wedding. As regards your question, however, I will not prevaricate nor deceive you, but what the old man of the sea told me, so much will I tell you in full. He said he could see Ulysses on an island sorrowing bitterly in the house of the nymph Calypso, who was keeping him prisoner, and he could not reach his home, for he had no ships nor sailors to take him over the sea.’ This was what Menelaus told me, and when I had heard his story I came away; the gods then gave me a fair wind and soon brought me safe home again.”  With these words he moved the heart of Penelope. Then Theoclymenus said to her:  “Madam, wife of Ulysses, Telemachus does not understand these things; listen therefore to me, for I can divine them surely, and will hide nothing from you. May Jove the king of heaven be my witness, and the rites of hospitality, with that hearth of Ulysses to which I now come, that Ulysses himself is even now in Ithaca, and, either going about the country or staying in one place, is enquiring into all these evil deeds and preparing a day of reckoning for the suitors. I saw an omen when I was on the ship which meant this, and I told Telemachus about it.”  “May it be even so,” answered Penelope; “if your words come true, you shall have such gifts and such good will from me that all who see you shall congratulate you.”  Thus did they converse. Meanwhile the suitors were throwing discs, or aiming with spears at a mark on the levelled ground in front of the house, and behaving with all their old insolence. But when it was now time for dinner, and the flock of sheep and goats had come into the town from all the country round, 140 with their shepherds as usual, then Medon, who was their favourite servant, and who waited upon them at table, said, “Now then, my young masters, you have had enough sport, so come inside that we may get dinner ready. Dinner is not a bad thing, at dinner time.”  They left their sports as he told them, and when they were within the house, they laid their cloaks on the benches and seats inside, and then sacrificed some sheep, goats, pigs, and a heifer, all of them fat and well grown.141 Thus they made ready for their meal. In the meantime Ulysses and the swineherd were about starting for the town, and the swineherd said, “Stranger, I suppose you still want to go to town to-day, as my master said you were to do; for my own part I should have liked you to stay here as a station hand, but I must do as my master tells me, or he will scold me later on, and a scolding from one’s master is a very serious thing. Let us then be off, for it is now broad day; it will be night again directly and then you will find it colder.”142  “I know, and understand you,” replied Ulysses; “you need say no more. Let us be going, but if you have a stick ready cut, let me have it to walk with, for you say the road is a very rough one.”  As he spoke he threw his shabby old tattered wallet over his shoulders, by the cord from which it hung, and Eumaeus gave him a stick to his liking. The two then started, leaving the station in charge of the dogs and herdsmen who remained behind; the swineherd led the way and his master followed after, looking like some broken down old tramp as he leaned upon his staff, and his clothes were all in rags. When they had got over the rough steep ground and were nearing the city, they reached the fountain from which the citizens drew their water. This had been made by Ithacus, Neritus, and Polyctor. There was a grove of water-loving poplars planted in a circle all round it, and the clear cold water came down to it from a rock high up,143 while above the fountain there was an altar to the nymphs, at which all wayfarers used to sacrifice. Here Melanthius son of Dolius overtook them as he was driving down some goats, the best in his flock, for the suitors’ dinner, and there were two shepherds with him. When he saw Eumaeus and Ulysses he reviled them with outrageous and unseemly language, which made Ulysses very angry.  “There you go,” cried he, “and a precious pair you are. See how heaven brings birds of the same feather to one another. Where, pray, master swineherd, are you taking this poor miserable object? It would make any one sick to see such a creature at table. A fellow like this never won a prize for anything in his life, but will go about rubbing his shoulders against every man’s door post, and begging, not for swords and cauldrons144 like a man, but only for a few scraps not worth begging for. If you would give him to me for a hand on my station, he might do to clean out the folds, or bring a bit of sweet feed to the kids, and he could fatten his thighs as much as he pleased on whey; but he has taken to bad ways and will not go about any kind of work; he will do nothing but beg victuals all the town over, to feed his insatiable belly. I say, therefore—and it shall surely be—if he goes near Ulysses’ house he will get his head broken by the stools they will fling at him, till they turn him out.”  On this, as he passed, he gave Ulysses a kick on the hip out of pure wantonness, but Ulysses stood firm, and did not budge from the path. For a moment he doubted whether or no to fly at Melanthius and kill him with his staff, or fling him to the ground and beat his brains out; he resolved, however, to endure it and keep himself in check, but the swineherd looked straight at Melanthius and rebuked him, lifting up his hands and praying to heaven as he did so.  “Fountain nymphs,” he cried, “children of Jove, if ever Ulysses burned you thigh bones covered with fat whether of lambs or kids, grant my prayer that heaven may send him home. He would soon put an end to the swaggering threats with which such men as you go about insulting people—gadding all over the town while your flocks are going to ruin through bad shepherding.”  Then Melanthius the goatherd answered, “You ill conditioned cur, what are you talking about? Some day or other I will put you on board ship and take you to a foreign country, where I can sell you and pocket the money you will fetch. I wish I were as sure that Apollo would strike Telemachus dead this very day, or that the suitors would kill him, as I am that Ulysses will never come home again.”  With this he left them to come on at their leisure, while he went quickly forward and soon reached the house of his master. When he got there he went in and took his seat among the suitors opposite Eurymachus, who liked him better than any of the others. The servants brought him a portion of meat, and an upper woman servant set bread before him that he might eat. Presently Ulysses and the swineherd came up to the house and stood by it, amid a sound of music, for Phemius was just beginning to sing to the suitors. Then Ulysses took hold of the swineherd’s hand, and said:  “Eumaeus, this house of Ulysses is a very fine place. No matter how far you go, you will find few like it. One building keeps following on after another. The outer court has a wall with battlements all round it; the doors are double folding, and of good workmanship; it would be a hard matter to take it by force of arms. I perceive, too, that there are many people banqueting within it, for there is a smell of roast meat, and I hear a sound of music, which the gods have made to go along with feasting.”  Then Eumaeus said, “You have perceived aright, as indeed you generally do; but let us think what will be our best course. Will you go inside first and join the suitors, leaving me here behind you, or will you wait here and let me go in first? But do not wait long, or some one may see you loitering about outside, and throw something at you. Consider this matter I pray you.”  And Ulysses answered, “I understand and heed. Go in first and leave me here where I am. I am quite used to being beaten and having things thrown at me. I have been so much buffeted about in war and by sea that I am case-hardened, and this too may go with the rest. But a man cannot hide away the cravings of a hungry belly; this is an enemy which gives much trouble to all men; it is because of this that ships are fitted out to sail the seas, and to make war upon other people.”  As they were thus talking, a dog that had been lying asleep raised his head and pricked up his ears. This was Argos, whom Ulysses had bred before setting out for Troy, but he had never had any work out of him. In the old days he used to be taken out by the young men when they went hunting wild goats, or deer, or hares, but now that his master was gone he was lying neglected on the heaps of mule and cow dung that lay in front of the stable doors till the men should come and draw it away to manure the great close; and he was full of fleas. As soon as he saw Ulysses standing there, he dropped his ears and wagged his tail, but he could not get close up to his master. When Ulysses saw the dog on the other side of the yard, he dashed a tear from his eyes without Eumaeus seeing it, and said:  “Eumaeus, what a noble hound that is over yonder on the manure heap: his build is splendid; is he as fine a fellow as he looks, or is he only one of those dogs that come begging about a table, and are kept merely for show?”  “This hound,” answered Eumaeus, “belonged to him who has died in a far country. If he were what he was when Ulysses left for Troy, he would soon show you what he could do. There was not a wild beast in the forest that could get away from him when he was once on its tracks. But now he has fallen on evil times, for his master is dead and gone, and the women take no care of him. Servants never do their work when their master’s hand is no longer over them, for Jove takes half the goodness out of a man when he makes a slave of him.”  As he spoke he went inside the buildings to the cloister where the suitors were, but Argos died as soon as he had recognised his master.  Telemachus saw Eumaeus long before any one else did, and beckoned him to come and sit beside him; so he looked about and saw a seat lying near where the carver sat serving out their portions to the suitors; he picked it up, brought it to Telemachus’s table, and sat down opposite him. Then the servant brought him his portion, and gave him bread from the bread-basket.  Immediately afterwards Ulysses came inside, looking like a poor miserable old beggar, leaning on his staff and with his clothes all in rags. He sat down upon the threshold of ash-wood just inside the doors leading from the outer to the inner court, and against a bearing-post of cypress-wood which the carpenter had skilfully planed, and had made to join truly with rule and line. Telemachus took a whole loaf from the bread-basket, with as much meat as he could hold in his two hands, and said to Eumaeus, “Take this to the stranger, and tell him to go the round of the suitors, and beg from them; a beggar must not be shamefaced.”  So Eumaeus went up to him and said, “Stranger, Telemachus sends you this, and says you are to go the round of the suitors begging, for beggars must not be shamefaced.”  Ulysses answered, “May King Jove grant all happiness to Telemachus, and fulfil the desire of his heart.”  Then with both hands he took what Telemachus had sent him, and laid it on the dirty old wallet at his feet. He went on eating it while the bard was singing, and had just finished his dinner as he left off. The suitors applauded the bard, whereon Minerva went up to Ulysses and prompted him to beg pieces of bread from each one of the suitors, that he might see what kind of people they were, and tell the good from the bad; but come what might she was not going to save a single one of them. Ulysses, therefore, went on his round, going from left to right, and stretched out his hands to beg as though he were a real beggar. Some of them pitied him, and were curious about him, asking one another who he was and where he came from; whereon the goatherd Melanthius said, “Suitors of my noble mistress, I can tell you something about him, for I have seen him before. The swineherd brought him here, but I know nothing about the man himself, nor where he comes from.”  On this Antinous began to abuse the swineherd. “You precious idiot,” he cried, “what have you brought this man to town for? Have we not tramps and beggars enough already to pester us as we sit at meat? Do you think it a small thing that such people gather here to waste your master’s property—and must you needs bring this man as well?”  And Eumaeus answered, “Antinous, your birth is good but your words evil. It was no doing of mine that he came here. Who is likely to invite a stranger from a foreign country, unless it be one of those who can do public service as a seer, a healer of hurts, a carpenter, or a bard who can charm us with his singing? Such men are welcome all the world over, but no one is likely to ask a beggar who will only worry him. You are always harder on Ulysses’ servants than any of the other suitors are, and above all on me, but I do not care so long as Telemachus and Penelope are alive and here.”  But Telemachus said, “Hush, do not answer him; Antinous has the bitterest tongue of all the suitors, and he makes the others worse.”  Then turning to Antinous he said, “Antinous, you take as much care of my interests as though I were your son. Why should you want to see this stranger turned out of the house? Heaven forbid; take something and give it him yourself; I do not grudge it; I bid you take it. Never mind my mother, nor any of the other servants in the house; but I know you will not do what I say, for you are more fond of eating things yourself than of giving them to other people.”  “What do you mean, Telemachus,” replied Antinous, “by this swaggering talk? If all the suitors were to give him as much as I will, he would not come here again for another three months.”  As he spoke he drew the stool on which he rested his dainty feet from under the table, and made as though he would throw it at Ulysses, but the other suitors all gave him something, and filled his wallet with bread and meat; he was about, therefore, to go back to the threshold and eat what the suitors had given him, but he first went up to Antinous and said:  “Sir, give me something; you are not, surely, the poorest man here; you seem to be a chief, foremost among them all; therefore you should be the better giver, and I will tell far and wide of your bounty. I too was a rich man once, and had a fine house of my own; in those days I gave to many a tramp such as I now am, no matter who he might be nor what he wanted. I had any number of servants, and all the other things which people have who live well and are accounted wealthy, but it pleased Jove to take all away from me. He sent me with a band of roving robbers to Egypt; it was a long voyage and I was undone by it. I stationed my ships in the river Aegyptus, and bade my men stay by them and keep guard over them, while I sent out scouts to reconnoitre from every point of vantage.  “But the men disobeyed my orders, took to their own devices, and ravaged the land of the Egyptians, killing the men, and taking their wives and children captives. The alarm was soon carried to the city, and when they heard the war-cry, the people came out at daybreak till the plain was filled with soldiers horse and foot, and with the gleam of armour. Then Jove spread panic among my men, and they would no longer face the enemy, for they found themselves surrounded. The Egyptians killed many of us, and took the rest alive to do forced labour for them; as for myself, they gave me to a friend who met them, to take to Cyprus, Dmetor by name, son of Iasus, who was a great man in Cyprus. Thence I am come hither in a state of great misery.”  Then Antinous said, “What god can have sent such a pestilence to plague us during our dinner? Get out, into the open part of the court,145 or I will give you Egypt and Cyprus over again for your insolence and importunity; you have begged of all the others, and they have given you lavishly, for they have abundance round them, and it is easy to be free with other people’s property when there is plenty of it.”  On this Ulysses began to move off, and said, “Your looks, my fine sir, are better than your breeding; if you were in your own house you would not spare a poor man so much as a pinch of salt, for though you are in another man’s, and surrounded with abundance, you cannot find it in you to give him even a piece of bread.”  This made Antinous very angry, and he scowled at him saying, “You shall pay for this before you get clear of the court.” With these words he threw a footstool at him, and hit him on the right shoulder blade near the top of his back. Ulysses stood firm as a rock and the blow did not even stagger him, but he shook his head in silence as he brooded on his revenge. Then he went back to the threshold and sat down there, laying his well filled wallet at his feet.  “Listen to me,” he cried, “you suitors of Queen Penelope, that I may speak even as I am minded. A man knows neither ache nor pain if he gets hit while fighting for his money, or for his sheep or his cattle; and even so Antinous has hit me while in the service of my miserable belly, which is always getting people into trouble. Still, if the poor have gods and avenging deities at all, I pray them that Antinous may come to a bad end before his marriage.”  “Sit where you are, and eat your victuals in silence, or be off elsewhere,” shouted Antinous. “If you say more I will have you dragged hand and foot through the courts, and the servants shall flay you alive.”  The other suitors were much displeased at this, and one of the young men said, “Antinous, you did ill in striking that poor wretch of a tramp: it will be worse for you if he should turn out to be some god—and we know the gods go about disguised in all sorts of ways as people from foreign countries, and travel about the world to see who do amiss and who righteously.”146  Thus said the suitors, but Antinous paid them no heed. Meanwhile Telemachus was furious about the blow that had been given to his father, and though no tear fell from him, he shook his head in silence and brooded on his revenge.  Now when Penelope heard that the beggar had been struck in the banqueting-cloister, she said before her maids, “Would that Apollo would so strike you, Antinous,” and her waiting woman Eurynome answered, “If our prayers were answered not one of the suitors would ever again see the sun rise.” Then Penelope said, “Nurse,147 I hate every single one of them, for they mean nothing but mischief, but I hate Antinous like the darkness of death itself. A poor unfortunate tramp has come begging about the house for sheer want. Every one else has given him something to put in his wallet, but Antinous has hit him on the right shoulder-blade with a footstool.”  Thus did she talk with her maids as she sat in her own room, and in the meantime Ulysses was getting his dinner. Then she called for the swineherd and said, “Eumaeus, go and tell the stranger to come here, I want to see him and ask him some questions. He seems to have travelled much, and he may have seen or heard something of my unhappy husband.”  To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, “If these Achaeans, Madam, would only keep quiet, you would be charmed with the history of his adventures. I had him three days and three nights with me in my hut, which was the first place he reached after running away from his ship, and he has not yet completed the story of his misfortunes. If he had been the most heaven-taught minstrel in the whole world, on whose lips all hearers hang entranced, I could not have been more charmed as I sat in my hut and listened to him. He says there is an old friendship between his house and that of Ulysses, and that he comes from Crete where the descendants of Minos live, after having been driven hither and thither by every kind of misfortune; he also declares that he has heard of Ulysses as being alive and near at hand among the Thesprotians, and that he is bringing great wealth home with him.”  “Call him here, then,” said Penelope, “that I too may hear his story. As for the suitors, let them take their pleasure indoors or out as they will, for they have nothing to fret about. Their corn and wine remain unwasted in their houses with none but servants to consume them, while they keep hanging about our house day after day sacrificing our oxen, sheep, and fat goats for their banquets, and never giving so much as a thought to the quantity of wine they drink. No estate can stand such recklessness, for we have now no Ulysses to protect us. If he were to come again, he and his son would soon have their revenge.”  As she spoke Telemachus sneezed so loudly that the whole house resounded with it. Penelope laughed when she heard this, and said to Eumaeus, “Go and call the stranger; did you not hear how my son sneezed just as I was speaking? This can only mean that all the suitors are going to be killed, and that not one of them shall escape. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart: if I am satisfied that the stranger is speaking the truth I shall give him a shirt and cloak of good wear.”  When Eumaeus heard this he went straight to Ulysses and said, “Father stranger, my mistress Penelope, mother of Telemachus, has sent for you; she is in great grief, but she wishes to hear anything you can tell her about her husband, and if she is satisfied that you are speaking the truth, she will give you a shirt and cloak, which are the very things that you are most in want of. As for bread, you can get enough of that to fill your belly, by begging about the town, and letting those give that will.”  “I will tell Penelope,” answered Ulysses, “nothing but what is strictly true. I know all about her husband, and have been partner with him in affliction, but I am afraid of passing through this crowd of cruel suitors, for their pride and insolence reach heaven. Just now, moreover, as I was going about the house without doing any harm, a man gave me a blow that hurt me very much, but neither Telemachus nor any one else defended me. Tell Penelope, therefore, to be patient and wait till sundown. Let her give me a seat close up to the fire, for my clothes are worn very thin—you know they are, for you have seen them ever since I first asked you to help me—she can then ask me about the return of her husband.”  The swineherd went back when he heard this, and Penelope said as she saw him cross the threshold, “Why do you not bring him here, Eumaeus? Is he afraid that some one will ill-treat him, or is he shy of coming inside the house at all? Beggars should not be shamefaced.”  To this you answered, O swineherd Eumaeus, “The stranger is quite reasonable. He is avoiding the suitors, and is only doing what any one else would do. He asks you to wait till sundown, and it will be much better, madam, that you should have him all to yourself, when you can hear him and talk to him as you will.”  “The man is no fool,” answered Penelope, “it would very likely be as he says, for there are no such abominable people in the whole world as these men are.”  When she had done speaking Eumaeus went back to the suitors, for he had explained everything. Then he went up to Telemachus and said in his ear so that none could overhear him, “My dear sir, I will now go back to the pigs, to see after your property and my own business. You will look to what is going on here, but above all be careful to keep out of danger, for there are many who bear you ill will. May Jove bring them to a bad end before they do us a mischief.”  “Very well,” replied Telemachus, “go home when you have had your dinner, and in the morning come here with the victims we are to sacrifice for the day. Leave the rest to heaven and me.”  On this Eumaeus took his seat again, and when he had finished his dinner he left the courts and the cloister with the men at table, and went back to his pigs. As for the suitors, they presently began to amuse themselves with singing and dancing, for it was now getting on towards evening.     BOOK XVIII   THE FIGHT WITH IRUS—ULYSSES WARNS AMPHINOMUS—PENELOPE GETS PRESENTS FROM THE SUITORS—THE BRAZIERS—ULYSSES REBUKES EURYMACHUS.   Now there came a certain common tramp who used to go begging all over the city of Ithaca, and was notorious as an incorrigible glutton and drunkard. This man had no strength nor stay in him, but he was a great hulking fellow to look at; his real name, the one his mother gave him, was Arnaeus, but the young men of the place called him Irus,148 because he used to run errands for any one who would send him. As soon as he came he began to insult Ulysses, and to try and drive him out of his own house.  “Be off, old man,” he cried, “from the doorway, or you shall be dragged out neck and heels. Do you not see that they are all giving me the wink, and wanting me to turn you out by force, only I do not like to do so? Get up then, and go of yourself, or we shall come to blows.”  Ulysses frowned on him and said, “My friend, I do you no manner of harm; people give you a great deal, but I am not jealous. There is room enough in this doorway for the pair of us, and you need not grudge me things that are not yours to give. You seem to be just such another tramp as myself, but perhaps the gods will give us better luck by and by. Do not, however, talk too much about fighting or you will incense me, and old though I am, I shall cover your mouth and chest with blood. I shall have more peace tomorrow if I do, for you will not come to the house of Ulysses any more.”  Irus was very angry and answered, “You filthy glutton, you run on trippingly like an old fish-fag. I have a good mind to lay both hands about you, and knock your teeth out of your head like so many boar’s tusks. Get ready, therefore, and let these people here stand by and look on. You will never be able to fight one who is so much younger than yourself.”  Thus roundly did they rate one another on the smooth pavement in front of the doorway,149 and when Antinous saw what was going on he laughed heartily and said to the others, “This is the finest sport that you ever saw; heaven never yet sent anything like it into this house. The stranger and Irus have quarreled and are going to fight, let us set them on to do so at once.”  The suitors all came up laughing, and gathered round the two ragged tramps. “Listen to me,” said Antinous, “there are some goats’ paunches down at the fire, which we have filled with blood and fat, and set aside for supper; he who is victorious and proves himself to be the better man shall have his pick of the lot; he shall be free of our table and we will not allow any other beggar about the house at all.”  The others all agreed, but Ulysses, to throw them off the scent, said, “Sirs, an old man like myself, worn out with suffering, cannot hold his own against a young one; but my irrepressible belly urges me on, though I know it can only end in my getting a drubbing. You must swear, however that none of you will give me a foul blow to favour Irus and secure him the victory.”  They swore as he told them, and when they had completed their oath Telemachus put in a word and said, “Stranger, if you have a mind to settle with this fellow, you need not be afraid of any one here. Whoever strikes you will have to fight more than one. I am host, and the other chiefs, Antinous and Eurymachus, both of them men of understanding, are of the same mind as I am.”  Every one assented, and Ulysses girded his old rags about his loins, thus baring his stalwart thighs, his broad chest and shoulders, and his mighty arms; but Minerva came up to him and made his limbs even stronger still. The suitors were beyond measure astonished, and one would turn towards his neighbour saying, “The stranger has brought such a thigh out of his old rags that there will soon be nothing left of Irus.”  Irus began to be very uneasy as he heard them, but the servants girded him by force, and brought him [into the open part of the court] in such a fright that his limbs were all of a tremble. Antinous scolded him and said, “You swaggering bully, you ought never to have been born at all if you are afraid of such an old broken down creature as this tramp is. I say, therefore—and it shall surely be—if he beats you and proves himself the better man, I shall pack you off on board ship to the mainland and send you to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him. He will cut off your nose and ears, and draw out your entrails for the dogs to eat.”  This frightened Irus still more, but they brought him into the middle of the court, and the two men raised their hands to fight. Then Ulysses considered whether he should let drive so hard at him as to make an end of him then and there, or whether he should give him a lighter blow that should only knock him down; in the end he deemed it best to give the lighter blow for fear the Achaeans should begin to suspect who he was. Then they began to fight, and Irus hit Ulysses on the right shoulder; but Ulysses gave Irus a blow on the neck under the ear that broke in the bones of his skull, and the blood came gushing out of his mouth; he fell groaning in the dust, gnashing his teeth and kicking on the ground, but the suitors threw up their hands and nearly died of laughter, as Ulysses caught hold of him by the foot and dragged him into the outer court as far as the gate-house. There he propped him up against the wall and put his staff in his hands. “Sit here,” said he, “and keep the dogs and pigs off; you are a pitiful creature, and if you try to make yourself king of the beggars any more you shall fare still worse.”  Then he threw his dirty old wallet, all tattered and torn over his shoulder with the cord by which it hung, and went back to sit down upon the threshold; but the suitors went within the cloisters, laughing and saluting him, “May Jove, and all the other gods,” said they, “grant you whatever you want for having put an end to the importunity of this insatiable tramp. We will take him over to the mainland presently, to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him.”  Ulysses hailed this as of good omen, and Antinous set a great goat’s paunch before him filled with blood and fat. Amphinomus took two loaves out of the bread-basket and brought them to him, pledging him as he did so in a golden goblet of wine. “Good luck to you,” he said, “father stranger, you are very badly off at present, but I hope you will have better times by and by.”  To this Ulysses answered, “Amphinomus, you seem to be a man of good understanding, as indeed you may well be, seeing whose son you are. I have heard your father well spoken of; he is Nisus of Dulichium, a man both brave and wealthy. They tell me you are his son, and you appear to be a considerable person; listen, therefore, and take heed to what I am saying. Man is the vainest of all creatures that have their being upon earth. As long as heaven vouchsafes him health and strength, he thinks that he shall come to no harm hereafter, and even when the blessed gods bring sorrow upon him, he bears it as he needs must, and makes the best of it; for God almighty gives men their daily minds day by day. I know all about it, for I was a rich man once, and did much wrong in the stubbornness of my pride, and in the confidence that my father and my brothers would support me; therefore let a man fear God in all things always, and take the good that heaven may see fit to send him without vain glory. Consider the infamy of what these suitors are doing; see how they are wasting the estate, and doing dishonour to the wife, of one who is certain to return some day, and that, too, not long hence. Nay, he will be here soon; may heaven send you home quietly first that you may not meet with him in the day of his coming, for once he is here the suitors and he will not part bloodlessly.”  With these words he made a drink-offering, and when he had drunk he put the gold cup again into the hands of Amphinomus, who walked away serious and bowing his head, for he foreboded evil. But even so he did not escape destruction, for Minerva had doomed him to fall by the hand of Telemachus. So he took his seat again at the place from which he had come.  Then Minerva put it into the mind of Penelope to show herself to the suitors, that she might make them still more enamoured of her, and win still further honour from her son and husband. So she feigned a mocking laugh and said, “Eurynome, I have changed my mind, and have a fancy to show myself to the suitors although I detest them. I should like also to give my son a hint that he had better not have anything more to do with them. They speak fairly enough but they mean mischief.”  “My dear child,” answered Eurynome, “all that you have said is true, go and tell your son about it, but first wash yourself and anoint your face. Do not go about with your cheeks all covered with tears; it is not right that you should grieve so incessantly; for Telemachus, whom you always prayed that you might live to see with a beard, is already grown up.”  “I know, Eurynome,” replied Penelope, “that you mean well, but do not try and persuade me to wash and to anoint myself, for heaven robbed me of all my beauty on the day my husband sailed; nevertheless, tell Autonoe and Hippodamia that I want them. They must be with me when I am in the cloister; I am not going among the men alone; it would not be proper for me to do so.”  On this the old woman150 went out of the room to bid the maids go to their mistress. In the meantime Minerva bethought her of another matter, and sent Penelope off into a sweet slumber; so she lay down on her couch and her limbs became heavy with sleep. Then the goddess shed grace and beauty over her that all the Achaeans might admire her. She washed her face with the ambrosial loveliness that Venus wears when she goes dancing with the Graces; she made her taller and of a more commanding figure, while as for her complexion it was whiter than sawn ivory. When Minerva had done all this she went away, whereon the maids came in from the women’s room and woke Penelope with the sound of their talking.  “What an exquisitely delicious sleep I have been having,” said she, as she passed her hands over her face, “in spite of all my misery. I wish Diana would let me die so sweetly now at this very moment, that I might no longer waste in despair for the loss of my dear husband, who possessed every kind of good quality and was the most distinguished man among the Achaeans.”  With these words she came down from her upper room, not alone but attended by two of her maidens, and when she reached the suitors she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister, holding a veil before her face, and with a staid maid servant on either side of her. As they beheld her the suitors were so overpowered and became so desperately enamoured of her, that each one prayed he might win her for his own bed fellow.  “Telemachus,” said she, addressing her son, “I fear you are no longer so discreet and well conducted as you used to be. When you were younger you had a greater sense of propriety; now, however, that you are grown up, though a stranger to look at you would take you for the son of a well to do father as far as size and good looks go, your conduct is by no means what it should be. What is all this disturbance that has been going on, and how came you to allow a stranger to be so disgracefully ill-treated? What would have happened if he had suffered serious injury while a suppliant in our house? Surely this would have been very discreditable to you.”  “I am not surprised, my dear mother, at your displeasure,” replied Telemachus, “I understand all about it and know when things are not as they should be, which I could not do when I was younger; I cannot, however, behave with perfect propriety at all times. First one and then another of these wicked people here keeps driving me out of my mind, and I have no one to stand by me. After all, however, this fight between Irus and the stranger did not turn out as the suitors meant it to do, for the stranger got the best of it. I wish Father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo would break the neck of every one of these wooers of yours, some inside the house and some out; and I wish they might all be as limp as Irus is over yonder in the gate of the outer court. See how he nods his head like a drunken man; he has had such a thrashing that he cannot stand on his feet nor get back to his home, wherever that may be, for he has no strength left in him.”  Thus did they converse. Eurymachus then came up and said, “Queen Penelope, daughter of Icarius, if all the Achaeans in Iasian Argos could see you at this moment, you would have still more suitors in your house by tomorrow morning, for you are the most admirable woman in the whole world both as regards personal beauty and strength of understanding.”  To this Penelope replied, “Eurymachus, heaven robbed me of all my beauty whether of face or figure when the Argives set sail for Troy and my dear husband with them. If he were to return and look after my affairs, I should both be more respected and show a better presence to the world. As it is, I am oppressed with care, and with the afflictions which heaven has seen fit to heap upon me. My husband foresaw it all, and when he was leaving home he took my right wrist in his hand—‘Wife,’ he said, ‘we shall not all of us come safe home from Troy, for the Trojans fight well both with bow and spear. They are excellent also at fighting from chariots, and nothing decides the issue of a fight sooner than this. I know not, therefore, whether heaven will send me back to you, or whether I may not fall over there at Troy. In the meantime do you look after things here. Take care of my father and mother as at present, and even more so during my absence, but when you see our son growing a beard, then marry whom you will, and leave this your present home.’ This is what he said and now it is all coming true. A night will come when I shall have to yield myself to a marriage which I detest, for Jove has taken from me all hope of happiness. This further grief, moreover, cuts me to the very heart. You suitors are not wooing me after the custom of my country. When men are courting a woman who they think will be a good wife to them and who is of noble birth, and when they are each trying to win her for himself, they usually bring oxen and sheep to feast the friends of the lady, and they make her magnificent presents, instead of eating up other people’s property without paying for it.”  This was what she said, and Ulysses was glad when he heard her trying to get presents out of the suitors, and flattering them with fair words which he knew she did not mean.  Then Antinous said, “Queen Penelope, daughter of Icarius, take as many presents as you please from any one who will give them to you; it is not well to refuse a present; but we will not go about our business nor stir from where we are, till you have married the best man among us whoever he may be.”  The others applauded what Antinous had said, and each one sent his servant to bring his present. Antinous’s man returned with a large and lovely dress most exquisitely embroidered. It had twelve beautifully made brooch pins of pure gold with which to fasten it. Eurymachus immediately brought her a magnificent chain of gold and amber beads that gleamed like sunlight. Eurydamas’s two men returned with some earrings fashioned into three brilliant pendants which glistened most beautifully; while king Pisander son of Polyctor gave her a necklace of the rarest workmanship, and every one else brought her a beautiful present of some kind.  Then the queen went back to her room upstairs, and her maids brought the presents after her. Meanwhile the suitors took to singing and dancing, and stayed till evening came. They danced and sang till it grew dark; they then brought in three braziers151 to give light, and piled them up with chopped firewood very old and dry, and they lit torches from them, which the maids held up turn and turn about. Then Ulysses said:  “Maids, servants of Ulysses who has so long been absent, go to the queen inside the house; sit with her and amuse her, or spin, and pick wool. I will hold the light for all these people. They may stay till morning, but shall not beat me, for I can stand a great deal.”  The maids looked at one another and laughed, while pretty Melantho began to gibe at him contemptuously. She was daughter to Dolius, but had been brought up by Penelope, who used to give her toys to play with, and looked after her when she was a child; but in spite of all this she showed no consideration for the sorrows of her mistress, and used to misconduct herself with Eurymachus, with whom she was in love.  “Poor wretch,” said she, “are you gone clean out of your mind? Go and sleep in some smithy, or place of public gossips, instead of chattering here. Are you not ashamed of opening your mouth before your betters—so many of them too? Has the wine been getting into your head, or do you always babble in this way? You seem to have lost your wits because you beat the tramp Irus; take care that a better man than he does not come and cudgel you about the head till he pack you bleeding out of the house.”  “Vixen,” replied Ulysses, scowling at her, “I will go and tell Telemachus what you have been saying, and he will have you torn limb from limb.”  With these words he scared the women, and they went off into the body of the house. They trembled all over, for they thought he would do as he said. But Ulysses took his stand near the burning braziers, holding up torches and looking at the people—brooding the while on things that should surely come to pass.  But Minerva would not let the suitors for one moment cease their insolence, for she wanted Ulysses to become even more bitter against them; she therefore set Eurymachus son of Polybus on to gibe at him, which made the others laugh. “Listen to me,” said he, “you suitors of Queen Penelope, that I may speak even as I am minded. It is not for nothing that this man has come to the house of Ulysses; I believe the light has not been coming from the torches, but from his own head—for his hair is all gone, every bit of it.”  Then turning to Ulysses he said, “Stranger, will you work as a servant, if I send you to the wolds and see that you are well paid? Can you build a stone fence, or plant trees? I will have you fed all the year round, and will find you in shoes and clothing. Will you go, then? Not you; for you have got into bad ways, and do not want to work; you had rather fill your belly by going round the country begging.”  “Eurymachus,” answered Ulysses, “if you and I were to work one against the other in early summer when the days are at their longest—give me a good scythe, and take another yourself, and let us see which will last the longer or mow the stronger, from dawn till dark when the mowing grass is about. Or if you will plough against me, let us each take a yoke of tawny oxen, well-mated and of great strength and endurance: turn me into a four acre field, and see whether you or I can drive the straighter furrow. If, again, war were to break out this day, give me a shield, a couple of spears and a helmet fitting well upon my temples—you would find me foremost in the fray, and would cease your gibes about my belly. You are insolent and cruel, and think yourself a great man because you live in a little world, and that a bad one. If Ulysses comes to his own again, the doors of his house are wide, but you will find them narrow when you try to fly through them.”  Eurymachus was furious at all this. He scowled at him and cried, “You wretch, I will soon pay you out for daring to say such things to me, and in public too. Has the wine been getting into your head or do you always babble in this way? You seem to have lost your wits because you beat the tramp Irus.” With this he caught hold of a footstool, but Ulysses sought protection at the knees of Amphinomus of Dulichium, for he was afraid. The stool hit the cupbearer on his right hand and knocked him down: the man fell with a cry flat on his back, and his wine-jug fell ringing to the ground. The suitors in the covered cloister were now in an uproar, and one would turn towards his neighbour, saying, “I wish the stranger had gone somewhere else, bad luck to him, for all the trouble he gives us. We cannot permit such disturbance about a beggar; if such ill counsels are to prevail we shall have no more pleasure at our banquet.”  On this Telemachus came forward and said, “Sirs, are you mad? Can you not carry your meat and your liquor decently? Some evil spirit has possessed you. I do not wish to drive any of you away, but you have had your suppers, and the sooner you all go home to bed the better.”  The suitors bit their lips and marvelled at the boldness of his speech; but Amphinomus the son of Nisus, who was son to Aretias, said, “Do not let us take offence; it is reasonable, so let us make no answer. Neither let us do violence to the stranger nor to any of Ulysses’ servants. Let the cupbearer go round with the drink-offerings, that we may make them and go home to our rest. As for the stranger, let us leave Telemachus to deal with him, for it is to his house that he has come.”  Thus did he speak, and his saying pleased them well, so Mulius of Dulichium, servant to Amphinomus, mixed them a bowl of wine and water and handed it round to each of them man by man, whereon they made their drink-offerings to the blessed gods: Then, when they had made their drink-offerings and had drunk each one as he was minded, they took their several ways each of them to his own abode.     BOOK XIX   TELEMACHUS AND ULYSSES REMOVE THE ARMOUR—ULYSSES INTERVIEWS PENELOPE—EURYCLEA WASHES HIS FEET AND RECOGNISES THE SCAR ON HIS LEG—PENELOPE TELLS HER DREAM TO ULYSSES.   Ulysses was left in the cloister, pondering on the means whereby with Minerva’s help he might be able to kill the suitors. Presently he said to Telemachus, “Telemachus, we must get the armour together and take it down inside. Make some excuse when the suitors ask you why you have removed it. Say that you have taken it to be out of the way of the smoke, inasmuch as it is no longer what it was when Ulysses went away, but has become soiled and begrimed with soot. Add to this more particularly that you are afraid Jove may set them on to quarrel over their wine, and that they may do each other some harm which may disgrace both banquet and wooing, for the sight of arms sometimes tempts people to use them.”  Telemachus approved of what his father had said, so he called nurse Euryclea and said, “Nurse, shut the women up in their room, while I take the armour that my father left behind him down into the store room. No one looks after it now my father is gone, and it has got all smirched with soot during my own boyhood. I want to take it down where the smoke cannot reach it.”  “I wish, child,” answered Euryclea, “that you would take the management of the house into your own hands altogether, and look after all the property yourself. But who is to go with you and light you to the store-room? The maids would have done so, but you would not let them.”  “The stranger,” said Telemachus, “shall show me a light; when people eat my bread they must earn it, no matter where they come from.”  Euryclea did as she was told, and bolted the women inside their room. Then Ulysses and his son made all haste to take the helmets, shields, and spears inside; and Minerva went before them with a gold lamp in her hand that shed a soft and brilliant radiance, whereon Telemachus said, “Father, my eyes behold a great marvel: the walls, with the rafters, crossbeams, and the supports on which they rest are all aglow as with a flaming fire. Surely there is some god here who has come down from heaven.”  “Hush,” answered Ulysses, “hold your peace and ask no questions, for this is the manner of the gods. Get you to your bed, and leave me here to talk with your mother and the maids. Your mother in her grief will ask me all sorts of questions.”  On this Telemachus went by torch-light to the other side of the inner court, to the room in which he always slept. There he lay in his bed till morning, while Ulysses was left in the cloister pondering on the means whereby with Minerva’s help he might be able to kill the suitors.  Then Penelope came down from her room looking like Venus or Diana, and they set her a seat inlaid with scrolls of silver and ivory near the fire in her accustomed place. It had been made by Icmalius and had a footstool all in one piece with the seat itself; and it was covered with a thick fleece: on this she now sat, and the maids came from the women’s room to join her. They set about removing the tables at which the wicked suitors had been dining, and took away the bread that was left, with the cups from which they had drunk. They emptied the embers out of the braziers, and heaped much wood upon them to give both light and heat; but Melantho began to rail at Ulysses a second time and said, “Stranger, do you mean to plague us by hanging about the house all night and spying upon the women? Be off, you wretch, outside, and eat your supper there, or you shall be driven out with a firebrand.”  Ulysses scowled at her and answered, “My good woman, why should you be so angry with me? Is it because I am not clean, and my clothes are all in rags, and because I am obliged to go begging about after the manner of tramps and beggars generally? I too was a rich man once, and had a fine house of my own; in those days I gave to many a tramp such as I now am, no matter who he might be nor what he wanted. I had any number of servants, and all the other things which people have who live well and are accounted wealthy, but it pleased Jove to take all away from me; therefore, woman, beware lest you too come to lose that pride and place in which you now wanton above your fellows; have a care lest you get out of favour with your mistress, and lest Ulysses should come home, for there is still a chance that he may do so. Moreover, though he be dead as you think he is, yet by Apollo’s will he has left a son behind him, Telemachus, who will note anything done amiss by the maids in the house, for he is now no longer in his boyhood.”  Penelope heard what he was saying and scolded the maid, “Impudent baggage,” said she, “I see how abominably you are behaving, and you shall smart for it. You knew perfectly well, for I told you myself, that I was going to see the stranger and ask him about my husband, for whose sake I am in such continual sorrow.”  Then she said to her head waiting woman Eurynome, “Bring a seat with a fleece upon it, for the stranger to sit upon while he tells his story, and listens to what I have to say. I wish to ask him some questions.”  Eurynome brought the seat at once and set a fleece upon it, and as soon as Ulysses had sat down Penelope began by saying, “Stranger, I shall first ask you who and whence are you? Tell me of your town and parents.”  “Madam,” answered Ulysses, “who on the face of the whole earth can dare to chide with you? Your fame reaches the firmament of heaven itself; you are like some blameless king, who upholds righteousness, as the monarch over a great and valiant nation: the earth yields its wheat and barley, the trees are loaded with fruit, the ewes bring forth lambs, and the sea abounds with fish by reason of his virtues, and his people do good deeds under him. Nevertheless, as I sit here in your house, ask me some other question and do not seek to know my race and family, or you will recall memories that will yet more increase my sorrow. I am full of heaviness, but I ought not to sit weeping and wailing in another person’s house, nor is it well to be thus grieving continually. I shall have one of the servants or even yourself complaining of me, and saying that my eyes swim with tears because I am heavy with wine.”  Then Penelope answered, “Stranger, heaven robbed me of all beauty, whether of face or figure, when the Argives set sail for Troy and my dear husband with them. If he were to return and look after my affairs I should be both more respected and should show a better presence to the world. As it is, I am oppressed with care, and with the afflictions which heaven has seen fit to heap upon me. The chiefs from all our islands—Dulichium, Same, and Zacynthus, as also from Ithaca itself, are wooing me against my will and are wasting my estate. I can therefore show no attention to strangers, nor suppliants, nor to people who say that they are skilled artisans, but am all the time broken-hearted about Ulysses. They want me to marry again at once, and I have to invent stratagems in order to deceive them. In the first place heaven put it in my mind to set up a great tambour-frame in my room, and to begin working upon an enormous piece of fine needlework. Then I said to them, ‘Sweethearts, Ulysses is indeed dead, still, do not press me to marry again immediately; wait—for I would not have my skill in needlework perish unrecorded—till I have finished making a pall for the hero Laertes, to be ready against the time when death shall take him. He is very rich, and the women of the place will talk if he is laid out without a pall.’ This was what I said, and they assented; whereon I used to keep working at my great web all day long, but at night I would unpick the stitches again by torch light. I fooled them in this way for three years without their finding it out, but as time wore on and I was now in my fourth year, in the waning of moons, and many days had been accomplished, those good for nothing hussies my maids betrayed me to the suitors, who broke in upon me and caught me; they were very angry with me, so I was forced to finish my work whether I would or no. And now I do not see how I can find any further shift for getting out of this marriage. My parents are putting great pressure upon me, and my son chafes at the ravages the suitors are making upon his estate, for he is now old enough to understand all about it and is perfectly able to look after his own affairs, for heaven has blessed him with an excellent disposition. Still, notwithstanding all this, tell me who you are and where you come from—for you must have had father and mother of some sort; you cannot be the son of an oak or of a rock.”  Then Ulysses answered, “Madam, wife of Ulysses, since you persist in asking me about my family, I will answer, no matter what it costs me: people must expect to be pained when they have been exiles as long as I have, and suffered as much among as many peoples. Nevertheless, as regards your question I will tell you all you ask. There is a fair and fruitful island in mid-ocean called Crete; it is thickly peopled and there are ninety cities in it: the people speak many different languages which overlap one another, for there are Achaeans, brave Eteocretans, Dorians of three-fold race, and noble Pelasgi. There is a great town there, Cnossus, where Minos reigned who every nine years had a conference with Jove himself.152 Minos was father to Deucalion, whose son I am, for Deucalion had two sons Idomeneus and myself. Idomeneus sailed for Troy, and I, who am the younger, am called Aethon; my brother, however, was at once the older and the more valiant of the two; hence it was in Crete that I saw Ulysses and showed him hospitality, for the winds took him there as he was on his way to Troy, carrying him out of his course from cape Malea and leaving him in Amnisus off the cave of Ilithuia, where the harbours are difficult to enter and he could hardly find shelter from the winds that were then raging. As soon as he got there he went into the town and asked for Idomeneus, claiming to be his old and valued friend, but Idomeneus had already set sail for Troy some ten or twelve days earlier, so I took him to my own house and showed him every kind of hospitality, for I had abundance of everything. Moreover, I fed the men who were with him with barley meal from the public store, and got subscriptions of wine and oxen for them to sacrifice to their heart’s content. They stayed with me twelve days, for there was a gale blowing from the North so strong that one could hardly keep one’s feet on land. I suppose some unfriendly god had raised it for them, but on the thirteenth day the wind dropped, and they got away.”  Many a plausible tale did Ulysses further tell her, and Penelope wept as she listened, for her heart was melted. As the snow wastes upon the mountain tops when the winds from South East and West have breathed upon it and thawed it till the rivers run bank full with water, even so did her cheeks overflow with tears for the husband who was all the time sitting by her side. Ulysses felt for her and was sorry for her, but he kept his eyes as hard as horn or iron without letting them so much as quiver, so cunningly did he restrain his tears. Then, when she had relieved herself by weeping, she turned to him again and said: “Now, stranger, I shall put you to the test and see whether or no you really did entertain my husband and his men, as you say you did. Tell me, then, how he was dressed, what kind of a man he was to look at, and so also with his companions.”  “Madam,” answered Ulysses, “it is such a long time ago that I can hardly say. Twenty years are come and gone since he left my home, and went elsewhither; but I will tell you as well as I can recollect. Ulysses wore a mantle of purple wool, double lined, and it was fastened by a gold brooch with two catches for the pin. On the face of this there was a device that shewed a dog holding a spotted fawn between his fore paws, and watching it as it lay panting upon the ground. Every one marvelled at the way in which these things had been done in gold, the dog looking at the fawn, and strangling it, while the fawn was struggling convulsively to escape.153 As for the shirt that he wore next his skin, it was so soft that it fitted him like the skin of an onion, and glistened in the sunlight to the admiration of all the women who beheld it. Furthermore I say, and lay my saying to your heart, that I do not know whether Ulysses wore these clothes when he left home, or whether one of his companions had given them to him while he was on his voyage; or possibly some one at whose house he was staying made him a present of them, for he was a man of many friends and had few equals among the Achaeans. I myself gave him a sword of bronze and a beautiful purple mantle, double lined, with a shirt that went down to his feet, and I sent him on board his ship with every mark of honour. He had a servant with him, a little older than himself, and I can tell you what he was like; his shoulders were hunched,154 he was dark, and he had thick curly hair. His name was Eurybates, and Ulysses treated him with greater familiarity than he did any of the others, as being the most like-minded with himself.”  Penelope was moved still more deeply as she heard the indisputable proofs that Ulysses laid before her; and when she had again found relief in tears she said to him, “Stranger, I was already disposed to pity you, but henceforth you shall be honoured and made welcome in my house. It was I who gave Ulysses the clothes you speak of. I took them out of the store room and folded them up myself, and I gave him also the gold brooch to wear as an ornament. Alas! I shall never welcome him home again. It was by an ill fate that he ever set out for that detested city whose very name I cannot bring myself even to mention.”  Then Ulysses answered, “Madam, wife of Ulysses, do not disfigure yourself further by grieving thus bitterly for your loss, though I can hardly blame you for doing so. A woman who has loved her husband and borne him children, would naturally be grieved at losing him, even though he were a worse man than Ulysses, who they say was like a god. Still, cease your tears and listen to what I can tell you. I will hide nothing from you, and can say with perfect truth that I have lately heard of Ulysses as being alive and on his way home; he is among the Thesprotians, and is bringing back much valuable treasure that he has begged from one and another of them; but his ship and all his crew were lost as they were leaving the Thrinacian island, for Jove and the sun-god were angry with him because his men had slaughtered the sun-god’s cattle, and they were all drowned to a man. But Ulysses stuck to the keel of the ship and was drifted on to the land of the Phaeacians, who are near of kin to the immortals, and who treated him as though he had been a god, giving him many presents, and wishing to escort him home safe and sound. In fact Ulysses would have been here long ago, had he not thought better to go from land to land gathering wealth; for there is no man living who is so wily as he is; there is no one can compare with him. Pheidon king of the Thesprotians told me all this, and he swore to me—making drink-offerings in his house as he did so—that the ship was by the water side and the crew found who would take Ulysses to his own country. He sent me off first, for there happened to be a Thesprotian ship sailing for the wheat-growing island of Dulichium, but he showed me all the treasure Ulysses had got together, and he had enough lying in the house of king Pheidon to keep his family for ten generations; but the king said Ulysses had gone to Dodona that he might learn Jove’s mind from the high oak tree, and know whether after so long an absence he should return to Ithaca openly or in secret. So you may know he is safe and will be here shortly; he is close at hand and cannot remain away from home much longer; nevertheless I will confirm my words with an oath, and call Jove who is the first and mightiest of all gods to witness, as also that hearth of Ulysses to which I have now come, that all I have spoken shall surely come to pass. Ulysses will return in this self same year; with the end of this moon and the beginning of the next he will be here.”  “May it be even so,” answered Penelope; “if your words come true you shall have such gifts and such good will from me that all who see you shall congratulate you; but I know very well how it will be. Ulysses will not return, neither will you get your escort hence, for so surely as that Ulysses ever was, there are now no longer any such masters in the house as he was, to receive honourable strangers or to further them on their way home. And now, you maids, wash his feet for him, and make him a bed on a couch with rugs and blankets, that he may be warm and quiet till morning. Then, at day break wash him and anoint him again, that he may sit in the cloister and take his meals with Telemachus. It shall be the worse for any one of these hateful people who is uncivil to him; like it or not, he shall have no more to do in this house. For how, sir, shall you be able to learn whether or no I am superior to others of my sex both in goodness of heart and understanding, if I let you dine in my cloisters squalid and ill clad? Men live but for a little season; if they are hard, and deal hardly, people wish them ill so long as they are alive, and speak contemptuously of them when they are dead, but he that is righteous and deals righteously, the people tell of his praise among all lands, and many shall call him blessed.”  Ulysses answered, “Madam, I have foresworn rugs and blankets from the day that I left the snowy ranges of Crete to go on shipboard. I will lie as I have lain on many a sleepless night hitherto. Night after night have I passed in any rough sleeping place, and waited for morning. Nor, again, do I like having my feet washed; I shall not let any of the young hussies about your house touch my feet; but, if you have any old and respectable woman who has gone through as much trouble as I have, I will allow her to wash them.”  To this Penelope said, “My dear sir, of all the guests who ever yet came to my house there never was one who spoke in all things with such admirable propriety as you do. There happens to be in the house a most respectable old woman—the same who received my poor dear husband in her arms the night he was born, and nursed him in infancy. She is very feeble now, but she shall wash your feet.” “Come here,” said she, “Euryclea, and wash your master’s age-mate; I suppose Ulysses’ hands and feet are very much the same now as his are, for trouble ages all of us dreadfully fast.”  On these words the old woman covered her face with her hands; she began to weep and made lamentation saying, “My dear child, I cannot think whatever I am to do with you. I am certain no one was ever more god-fearing than yourself, and yet Jove hates you. No one in the whole world ever burned him more thigh bones, nor gave him finer hecatombs when you prayed you might come to a green old age yourself and see your son grow up to take after you: yet see how he has prevented you alone from ever getting back to your own home. I have no doubt the women in some foreign palace which Ulysses has got to are gibing at him as all these sluts here have been gibing at you. I do not wonder at your not choosing to let them wash you after the manner in which they have insulted you; I will wash your feet myself gladly enough, as Penelope has said that I am to do so; I will wash them both for Penelope’s sake and for your own, for you have raised the most lively feelings of compassion in my mind; and let me say this moreover, which pray attend to; we have had all kinds of strangers in distress come here before now, but I make bold to say that no one ever yet came who was so like Ulysses in figure, voice, and feet as you are.”  “Those who have seen us both,” answered Ulysses, “have always said we were wonderfully like each other, and now you have noticed it too.”  Then the old woman took the cauldron in which she was going to wash his feet, and poured plenty of cold water into it, adding hot till the bath was warm enough. Ulysses sat by the fire, but ere long he turned away from the light, for it occurred to him that when the old woman had hold of his leg she would recognise a certain scar which it bore, whereon the whole truth would come out. And indeed as soon as she began washing her master, she at once knew the scar as one that had been given him by a wild boar when he was hunting on Mt. Parnassus with his excellent grandfather Autolycus—who was the most accomplished thief and perjurer in the whole world—and with the sons of Autolycus. Mercury himself had endowed him with this gift, for he used to burn the thigh bones of goats and kids to him, so he took pleasure in his companionship. It happened once that Autolycus had gone to Ithaca and had found the child of his daughter just born. As soon as he had done supper Euryclea set the infant upon his knees and said, “Autolycus, you must find a name for your grandson; you greatly wished that you might have one.”  “Son-in-law and daughter,” replied Autolycus, “call the child thus: I am highly displeased with a large number of people in one place and another, both men and women; so name the child ‘Ulysses,’ or the child of anger. When he grows up and comes to visit his mother’s family on Mt. Parnassus, where my possessions lie, I will make him a present and will send him on his way rejoicing.”  Ulysses, therefore, went to Parnassus to get the presents from Autolycus, who with his sons shook hands with him and gave him welcome. His grandmother Amphithea threw her arms about him, and kissed his head, and both his beautiful eyes, while Autolycus desired his sons to get dinner ready, and they did as he told them. They brought in a five year old bull, flayed it, made it ready and divided it into joints; these they then cut carefully up into smaller pieces and spitted them; they roasted them sufficiently and served the portions round. Thus through the livelong day to the going down of the sun they feasted, and every man had his full share so that all were satisfied; but when the sun set and it came on dark, they went to bed and enjoyed the boon of sleep.  When the child of morning, rosy-fingered Dawn, appeared, the sons of Autolycus went out with their hounds hunting, and Ulysses went too. They climbed the wooded slopes of Parnassus and soon reached its breezy upland valleys; but as the sun was beginning to beat upon the fields, fresh-risen from the slow still currents of Oceanus, they came to a mountain dell. The dogs were in front searching for the tracks of the beast they were chasing, and after them came the sons of Autolycus, among whom was Ulysses, close behind the dogs, and he had a long spear in his hand. Here was the lair of a huge boar among some thick brushwood, so dense that the wind and rain could not get through it, nor could the sun’s rays pierce it, and the ground underneath lay thick with fallen leaves. The boar heard the noise of the men’s feet, and the hounds baying on every side as the huntsmen came up to him, so he rushed from his lair, raised the bristles on his neck, and stood at bay with fire flashing from his eyes. Ulysses was the first to raise his spear and try to drive it into the brute, but the boar was too quick for him, and charged him sideways, ripping him above the knee with a gash that tore deep though it did not reach the bone. As for the boar, Ulysses hit him on the right shoulder, and the point of the spear went right through him, so that he fell groaning in the dust until the life went out of him. The sons of Autolycus busied themselves with the carcass of the boar, and bound Ulysses’ wound; then, after saying a spell to stop the bleeding, they went home as fast as they could. But when Autolycus and his sons had thoroughly healed Ulysses, they made him some splendid presents, and sent him back to Ithaca with much mutual good will. When he got back, his father and mother were rejoiced to see him, and asked him all about it, and how he had hurt himself to get the scar; so he told them how the boar had ripped him when he was out hunting with Autolycus and his sons on Mt. Parnassus.  As soon as Euryclea had got the scarred limb in her hands and had well hold of it, she recognised it and dropped the foot at once. The leg fell into the bath, which rang out and was overturned, so that all the water was spilt on the ground; Euryclea’s eyes between her joy and her grief filled with tears, and she could not speak, but she caught Ulysses by the beard and said, “My dear child, I am sure you must be Ulysses himself, only I did not know you till I had actually touched and handled you.”  As she spoke she looked towards Penelope, as though wanting to tell her that her dear husband was in the house, but Penelope was unable to look in that direction and observe what was going on, for Minerva had diverted her attention; so Ulysses caught Euryclea by the throat with his right hand and with his left drew her close to him, and said, “Nurse, do you wish to be the ruin of me, you who nursed me at your own breast, now that after twenty years of wandering I am at last come to my own home again? Since it has been borne in upon you by heaven to recognise me, hold your tongue, and do not say a word about it to any one else in the house, for if you do I tell you—and it shall surely be—that if heaven grants me to take the lives of these suitors, I will not spare you, though you are my own nurse, when I am killing the other women.”  “My child,” answered Euryclea, “what are you talking about? You know very well that nothing can either bend or break me. I will hold my tongue like a stone or a piece of iron; furthermore let me say, and lay my saying to your heart, when heaven has delivered the suitors into your hand, I will give you a list of the women in the house who have been ill-behaved, and of those who are guiltless.”  And Ulysses answered, “Nurse, you ought not to speak in that way; I am well able to form my own opinion about one and all of them; hold your tongue and leave everything to heaven.”  As he said this Euryclea left the cloister to fetch some more water, for the first had been all spilt; and when she had washed him and anointed him with oil, Ulysses drew his seat nearer to the fire to warm himself, and hid the scar under his rags. Then Penelope began talking to him and said:  “Stranger, I should like to speak with you briefly about another matter. It is indeed nearly bed time—for those, at least, who can sleep in spite of sorrow. As for myself, heaven has given me a life of such unmeasurable woe, that even by day when I am attending to my duties and looking after the servants, I am still weeping and lamenting during the whole time; then, when night comes, and we all of us go to bed, I lie awake thinking, and my heart becomes a prey to the most incessant and cruel tortures. As the dun nightingale, daughter of Pandareus, sings in the early spring from her seat in shadiest covert hid, and with many a plaintive trill pours out the tale how by mishap she killed her own child Itylus, son of king Zethus, even so does my mind toss and turn in its uncertainty whether I ought to stay with my son here, and safeguard my substance, my bondsmen, and the greatness of my house, out of regard to public opinion and the memory of my late husband, or whether it is not now time for me to go with the best of these suitors who are wooing me and making me such magnificent presents. As long as my son was still young, and unable to understand, he would not hear of my leaving my husband’s house, but now that he is full grown he begs and prays me to do so, being incensed at the way in which the suitors are eating up his property. Listen, then, to a dream that I have had and interpret it for me if you can. I have twenty geese about the house that eat mash out of a trough,155 and of which I am exceedingly fond. I dreamed that a great eagle came swooping down from a mountain, and dug his curved beak into the neck of each of them till he had killed them all. Presently he soared off into the sky, and left them lying dead about the yard; whereon I wept in my dream till all my maids gathered round me, so piteously was I grieving because the eagle had killed my geese. Then he came back again, and perching on a projecting rafter spoke to me with human voice, and told me to leave off crying. ‘Be of good courage,’ he said, ‘daughter of Icarius; this is no dream, but a vision of good omen that shall surely come to pass. The geese are the suitors, and I am no longer an eagle, but your own husband, who am come back to you, and who will bring these suitors to a disgraceful end.’ On this I woke, and when I looked out I saw my geese at the trough eating their mash as usual.”  “This dream, Madam,” replied Ulysses, “can admit but of one interpretation, for had not Ulysses himself told you how it shall be fulfilled? The death of the suitors is portended, and not one single one of them will escape.”  And Penelope answered, “Stranger, dreams are very curious and unaccountable things, and they do not by any means invariably come true. There are two gates through which these unsubstantial fancies proceed; the one is of horn, and the other ivory. Those that come through the gate of ivory are fatuous, but those from the gate of horn mean something to those that see them. I do not think, however, that my own dream came through the gate of horn, though I and my son should be most thankful if it proves to have done so. Furthermore I say—and lay my saying to your heart—the coming dawn will usher in the ill-omened day that is to sever me from the house of Ulysses, for I am about to hold a tournament of axes. My husband used to set up twelve axes in the court, one in front of the other, like the stays upon which a ship is built; he would then go back from them and shoot an arrow through the whole twelve. I shall make the suitors try to do the same thing, and whichever of them can string the bow most easily, and send his arrow through all the twelve axes, him will I follow, and quit this house of my lawful husband, so goodly and so abounding in wealth. But even so, I doubt not that I shall remember it in my dreams.”  Then Ulysses answered, “Madam, wife of Ulysses, you need not defer your tournament, for Ulysses will return ere ever they can string the bow, handle it how they will, and send their arrows through the iron.”  To this Penelope said, “As long, sir, as you will sit here and talk to me, I can have no desire to go to bed. Still, people cannot do permanently without sleep, and heaven has appointed us dwellers on earth a time for all things. I will therefore go upstairs and recline upon that couch which I have never ceased to flood with my tears from the day Ulysses set out for the city with a hateful name.”  She then went upstairs to her own room, not alone, but attended by her maidens, and when there, she lamented her dear husband till Minerva shed sweet sleep over her eyelids.     BOOK XX   ULYSSES CANNOT SLEEP—PENELOPE’S PRAYER TO DIANA—THE TWO SIGNS FROM HEAVEN—EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS ARRIVE—THE SUITORS DINE—CTESIPPUS THROWS AN OX’S FOOT AT ULYSSES—THEOCLYMENUS FORETELLS DISASTER AND LEAVES THE HOUSE.   Ulysses slept in the cloister upon an undressed bullock’s hide, on the top of which he threw several skins of the sheep the suitors had eaten, and Eurynome156 threw a cloak over him after he had laid himself down. There, then, Ulysses lay wakefully brooding upon the way in which he should kill the suitors; and by and by, the women who had been in the habit of misconducting themselves with them, left the house giggling and laughing with one another. This made Ulysses very angry, and he doubted whether to get up and kill every single one of them then and there, or to let them sleep one more and last time with the suitors. His heart growled within him, and as a bitch with puppies growls and shows her teeth when she sees a stranger, so did his heart growl with anger at the evil deeds that were being done: but he beat his breast and said, “Heart, be still, you had worse than this to bear on the day when the terrible Cyclops ate your brave companions; yet you bore it in silence till your cunning got you safe out of the cave, though you made sure of being killed.”  Thus he chided with his heart, and checked it into endurance, but he tossed about as one who turns a paunch full of blood and fat in front of a hot fire, doing it first on one side and then on the other, that he may get it cooked as soon as possible, even so did he turn himself about from side to side, thinking all the time how, single handed as he was, he should contrive to kill so large a body of men as the wicked suitors. But by and by Minerva came down from heaven in the likeness of a woman, and hovered over his head saying, “My poor unhappy man, why do you lie awake in this way? This is your house: your wife is safe inside it, and so is your son who is just such a young man as any father may be proud of.”  “Goddess,” answered Ulysses, “all that you have said is true, but I am in some doubt as to how I shall be able to kill these wicked suitors single handed, seeing what a number of them there always are. And there is this further difficulty, which is still more considerable. Supposing that with Jove’s and your assistance I succeed in killing them, I must ask you to consider where I am to escape to from their avengers when it is all over.”  “For shame,” replied Minerva, “why, any one else would trust a worse ally than myself, even though that ally were only a mortal and less wise than I am. Am I not a goddess, and have I not protected you throughout in all your troubles? I tell you plainly that even though there were fifty bands of men surrounding us and eager to kill us, you should take all their sheep and cattle, and drive them away with you. But go to sleep; it is a very bad thing to lie awake all night, and you shall be out of your troubles before long.”  As she spoke she shed sleep over his eyes, and then went back to Olympus.  While Ulysses was thus yielding himself to a very deep slumber that eased the burden of his sorrows, his admirable wife awoke, and sitting up in her bed began to cry. When she had relieved herself by weeping she prayed to Diana saying, “Great Goddess Diana, daughter of Jove, drive an arrow into my heart and slay me; or let some whirlwind snatch me up and bear me through paths of darkness till it drop me into the mouths of over-flowing Oceanus, as it did the daughters of Pandareus. The daughters of Pandareus lost their father and mother, for the gods killed them, so they were left orphans. But Venus took care of them, and fed them on cheese, honey, and sweet wine. Juno taught them to excel all women in beauty of form and understanding; Diana gave them an imposing presence, and Minerva endowed them with every kind of accomplishment; but one day when Venus had gone up to Olympus to see Jove about getting them married (for well does he know both what shall happen and what not happen to every one) the storm winds came and spirited them away to become handmaids to the dread Erinyes. Even so I wish that the gods who live in heaven would hide me from mortal sight, or that fair Diana might strike me, for I would fain go even beneath the sad earth if I might do so still looking towards Ulysses only, and without having to yield myself to a worse man than he was. Besides, no matter how much people may grieve by day, they can put up with it so long as they can sleep at night, for when the eyes are closed in slumber people forget good and ill alike; whereas my misery haunts me even in my dreams. This very night methought there was one lying by my side who was like Ulysses as he was when he went away with his host, and I rejoiced, for I believed that it was no dream, but the very truth itself.”  On this the day broke, but Ulysses heard the sound of her weeping, and it puzzled him, for it seemed as though she already knew him and was by his side. Then he gathered up the cloak and the fleeces on which he had lain, and set them on a seat in the cloister, but he took the bullock’s hide out into the open. He lifted up his hands to heaven, and prayed, saying “Father Jove, since you have seen fit to bring me over land and sea to my own home after all the afflictions you have laid upon me, give me a sign out of the mouth of some one or other of those who are now waking within the house, and let me have another sign of some kind from outside.”  Thus did he pray. Jove heard his prayer and forthwith thundered high up among the clouds from the splendour of Olympus, and Ulysses was glad when he heard it. At the same time within the house, a miller-woman from hard by in the mill room lifted up her voice and gave him another sign. There were twelve miller-women whose business it was to grind wheat and barley which are the staff of life. The others had ground their task and had gone to take their rest, but this one had not yet finished, for she was not so strong as they were, and when she heard the thunder she stopped grinding and gave the sign to her master. “Father Jove,” said she, “you, who rule over heaven and earth, you have thundered from a clear sky without so much as a cloud in it, and this means something for somebody; grant the prayer, then, of me your poor servant who calls upon you, and let this be the very last day that the suitors dine in the house of Ulysses. They have worn me out with labour of grinding meal for them, and I hope they may never have another dinner anywhere at all.”  Ulysses was glad when he heard the omens conveyed to him by the woman’s speech, and by the thunder, for he knew they meant that he should avenge himself on the suitors.  Then the other maids in the house rose and lit the fire on the hearth; Telemachus also rose and put on his clothes. He girded his sword about his shoulder, bound his sandals on to his comely feet, and took a doughty spear with a point of sharpened bronze; then he went to the threshold of the cloister and said to Euryclea, “Nurse, did you make the stranger comfortable both as regards bed and board, or did you let him shift for himself?—for my mother, good woman though she is, has a way of paying great attention to second-rate people, and of neglecting others who are in reality much better men.”  “Do not find fault child,” said Euryclea, “when there is no one to find fault with. The stranger sat and drank his wine as long as he liked: your mother did ask him if he would take any more bread and he said he would not. When he wanted to go to bed she told the servants to make one for him, but he said he was such a wretched outcast that he would not sleep on a bed and under blankets; he insisted on having an undressed bullock’s hide and some sheepskins put for him in the cloister and I threw a cloak over him myself.”157  Then Telemachus went out of the court to the place where the Achaeans were meeting in assembly; he had his spear in his hand, and he was not alone, for his two dogs went with him. But Euryclea called the maids and said, “Come, wake up; set about sweeping the cloisters and sprinkling them with water to lay the dust; put the covers on the seats; wipe down the tables, some of you, with a wet sponge; clean out the mixing-jugs and the cups, and go for water from the fountain at once; the suitors will be here directly; they will be here early, for it is a feast day.”  Thus did she speak, and they did even as she had said: twenty of them went to the fountain for water, and the others set themselves busily to work about the house. The men who were in attendance on the suitors also came up and began chopping firewood. By and by the women returned from the fountain, and the swineherd came after them with the three best pigs he could pick out. These he let feed about the premises, and then he said good-humouredly to Ulysses, “Stranger, are the suitors treating you any better now, or are they as insolent as ever?”  “May heaven,” answered Ulysses, “requite to them the wickedness with which they deal high-handedly in another man’s house without any sense of shame.”  Thus did they converse; meanwhile Melanthius the goatherd came up, for he too was bringing in his best goats for the suitors’ dinner; and he had two shepherds with him. They tied the goats up under the gatehouse, and then Melanthius began gibing at Ulysses. “Are you still here, stranger,” said he, “to pester people by begging about the house? Why can you not go elsewhere? You and I shall not come to an understanding before we have given each other a taste of our fists. You beg without any sense of decency: are there not feasts elsewhere among the Achaeans, as well as here?”  Ulysses made no answer, but bowed his head and brooded. Then a third man, Philoetius, joined them, who was bringing in a barren heifer and some goats. These were brought over by the boatmen who are there to take people over when any one comes to them. So Philoetius made his heifer and his goats secure under the gatehouse, and then went up to the swineherd. “Who, Swineherd,” said he, “is this stranger that is lately come here? Is he one of your men? What is his family? Where does he come from? Poor fellow, he looks as if he had been some great man, but the gods give sorrow to whom they will—even to kings if it so pleases them.”  As he spoke he went up to Ulysses and saluted him with his right hand; “Good day to you, father stranger,” said he, “you seem to be very poorly off now, but I hope you will have better times by and by. Father Jove, of all gods you are the most malicious. We are your own children, yet you show us no mercy in all our misery and afflictions. A sweat came over me when I saw this man, and my eyes filled with tears, for he reminds me of Ulysses, who I fear is going about in just such rags as this man’s are, if indeed he is still among the living. If he is already dead and in the house of Hades, then, alas! for my good master, who made me his stockman when I was quite young among the Cephallenians, and now his cattle are countless; no one could have done better with them than I have, for they have bred like ears of corn; nevertheless I have to keep bringing them in for others to eat, who take no heed to his son though he is in the house, and fear not the wrath of heaven, but are already eager to divide Ulysses’ property among them because he has been away so long. I have often thought—only it would not be right while his son is living—of going off with the cattle to some foreign country; bad as this would be, it is still harder to stay here and be ill-treated about other people’s herds. My position is intolerable, and I should long since have run away and put myself under the protection of some other chief, only that I believe my poor master will yet return, and send all these suitors flying out of the house.”  “Stockman,” answered Ulysses, “you seem to be a very well-disposed person, and I can see that you are a man of sense. Therefore I will tell you, and will confirm my words with an oath. By Jove, the chief of all gods, and by that hearth of Ulysses to which I am now come, Ulysses shall return before you leave this place, and if you are so minded you shall see him killing the suitors who are now masters here.”  “If Jove were to bring this to pass,” replied the stockman, “you should see how I would do my very utmost to help him.”  And in like manner Eumaeus prayed that Ulysses might return home.  Thus did they converse. Meanwhile the suitors were hatching a plot to murder Telemachus: but a bird flew near them on their left hand—an eagle with a dove in its talons. On this Amphinomus said, “My friends, this plot of ours to murder Telemachus will not succeed; let us go to dinner instead.”  The others assented, so they went inside and laid their cloaks on the benches and seats. They sacrificed the sheep, goats, pigs, and the heifer, and when the inward meats were cooked they served them round. They mixed the wine in the mixing-bowls, and the swineherd gave every man his cup, while Philoetius handed round the bread in the bread baskets, and Melanthius poured them out their wine. Then they laid their hands upon the good things that were before them.  Telemachus purposely made Ulysses sit in the part of the cloister that was paved with stone;158 he gave him a shabby looking seat at a little table to himself, and had his portion of the inward meats brought to him, with his wine in a gold cup. “Sit there,” said he, “and drink your wine among the great people. I will put a stop to the gibes and blows of the suitors, for this is no public house, but belongs to Ulysses, and has passed from him to me. Therefore, suitors, keep your hands and your tongues to yourselves, or there will be mischief.”  The suitors bit their lips, and marvelled at the boldness of his speech; then Antinous said, “We do not like such language but we will put up with it, for Telemachus is threatening us in good earnest. If Jove had let us we should have put a stop to his brave talk ere now.”  Thus spoke Antinous, but Telemachus heeded him not. Meanwhile the heralds were bringing the holy hecatomb through the city, and the Achaeans gathered under the shady grove of Apollo.  Then they roasted the outer meat, drew it off the spits, gave every man his portion, and feasted to their heart’s content; those who waited at table gave Ulysses exactly the same portion as the others had, for Telemachus had told them to do so.  But Minerva would not let the suitors for one moment drop their insolence, for she wanted Ulysses to become still more bitter against them. Now there happened to be among them a ribald fellow, whose name was Ctesippus, and who came from Same. This man, confident in his great wealth, was paying court to the wife of Ulysses, and said to the suitors, “Hear what I have to say. The stranger has already had as large a portion as any one else; this is well, for it is not right nor reasonable to ill-treat any guest of Telemachus who comes here. I will, however, make him a present on my own account, that he may have something to give to the bath-woman, or to some other of Ulysses’ servants.”  As he spoke he picked up a heifer’s foot from the meat-basket in which it lay, and threw it at Ulysses, but Ulysses turned his head a little aside, and avoided it, smiling grimly Sardinian fashion159 as he did so, and it hit the wall, not him. On this Telemachus spoke fiercely to Ctesippus, “It is a good thing for you,” said he, “that the stranger turned his head so that you missed him. If you had hit him I should have run you through with my spear, and your father would have had to see about getting you buried rather than married in this house. So let me have no more unseemly behaviour from any of you, for I am grown up now to the knowledge of good and evil and understand what is going on, instead of being the child that I have been heretofore. I have long seen you killing my sheep and making free with my corn and wine: I have put up with this, for one man is no match for many, but do me no further violence. Still, if you wish to kill me, kill me; I would far rather die than see such disgraceful scenes day after day—guests insulted, and men dragging the women servants about the house in an unseemly way.”  They all held their peace till at last Agelaus son of Damastor said, “No one should take offence at what has just been said, nor gainsay it, for it is quite reasonable. Leave off, therefore, ill-treating the stranger, or any one else of the servants who are about the house; I would say, however, a friendly word to Telemachus and his mother, which I trust may commend itself to both. ‘As long,’ I would say, ‘as you had ground for hoping that Ulysses would one day come home, no one could complain of your waiting and suffering160 the suitors to be in your house. It would have been better that he should have returned, but it is now sufficiently clear that he will never do so; therefore talk all this quietly over with your mother, and tell her to marry the best man, and the one who makes her the most advantageous offer. Thus you will yourself be able to manage your own inheritance, and to eat and drink in peace, while your mother will look after some other man’s house, not yours.’”  To this Telemachus answered, “By Jove, Agelaus, and by the sorrows of my unhappy father, who has either perished far from Ithaca, or is wandering in some distant land, I throw no obstacles in the way of my mother’s marriage; on the contrary I urge her to choose whomsoever she will, and I will give her numberless gifts into the bargain, but I dare not insist point blank that she shall leave the house against her own wishes. Heaven forbid that I should do this.”  Minerva now made the suitors fall to laughing immoderately, and set their wits wandering; but they were laughing with a forced laughter. Their meat became smeared with blood; their eyes filled with tears, and their hearts were heavy with forebodings. Theoclymenus saw this and said, “Unhappy men, what is it that ails you? There is a shroud of darkness drawn over you from head to foot, your cheeks are wet with tears; the air is alive with wailing voices; the walls and roof-beams drip blood; the gate of the cloisters and the court beyond them are full of ghosts trooping down into the night of hell; the sun is blotted out of heaven, and a blighting gloom is over all the land.”  Thus did he speak, and they all of them laughed heartily. Eurymachus then said, “This stranger who has lately come here has lost his senses. Servants, turn him out into the streets, since he finds it so dark here.”  But Theoclymenus said, “Eurymachus, you need not send any one with me. I have eyes, ears, and a pair of feet of my own, to say nothing of an understanding mind. I will take these out of the house with me, for I see mischief overhanging you, from which not one of you men who are insulting people and plotting ill deeds in the house of Ulysses will be able to escape.”  He left the house as he spoke, and went back to Piraeus who gave him welcome, but the suitors kept looking at one another and provoking Telemachus by laughing at the strangers. One insolent fellow said to him, “Telemachus, you are not happy in your guests; first you have this importunate tramp, who comes begging bread and wine and has no skill for work or for hard fighting, but is perfectly useless, and now here is another fellow who is setting himself up as a prophet. Let me persuade you, for it will be much better to put them on board ship and send them off to the Sicels to sell for what they will bring.”  Telemachus gave him no heed, but sate silently watching his father, expecting every moment that he would begin his attack upon the suitors.  Meanwhile the daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, had had a rich seat placed for her facing the court and cloisters, so that she could hear what every one was saying. The dinner indeed had been prepared amid much merriment; it had been both good and abundant, for they had sacrificed many victims; but the supper was yet to come, and nothing can be conceived more gruesome than the meal which a goddess and a brave man were soon to lay before them—for they had brought their doom upon themselves.     BOOK XXI   THE TRIAL OF THE AXES, DURING WHICH ULYSSES REVEALS HIMSELF TO EUMAEUS AND PHILOETIUS   Minerva now put it in Penelope’s mind to make the suitors try their skill with the bow and with the iron axes, in contest among themselves, as a means of bringing about their destruction. She went upstairs and got the store-room key, which was made of bronze and had a handle of ivory; she then went with her maidens into the store-room at the end of the house, where her husband’s treasures of gold, bronze, and wrought iron were kept, and where was also his bow, and the quiver full of deadly arrows that had been given him by a friend whom he had met in Lacedaemon—Iphitus the son of Eurytus. The two fell in with one another in Messene at the house of Ortilochus, where Ulysses was staying in order to recover a debt that was owing from the whole people; for the Messenians had carried off three hundred sheep from Ithaca, and had sailed away with them and with their shepherds. In quest of these Ulysses took a long journey while still quite young, for his father and the other chieftains sent him on a mission to recover them. Iphitus had gone there also to try and get back twelve brood mares that he had lost, and the mule foals that were running with them. These mares were the death of him in the end, for when he went to the house of Jove’s son, mighty Hercules, who performed such prodigies of valour, Hercules to his shame killed him, though he was his guest, for he feared not heaven’s vengeance, nor yet respected his own table which he had set before Iphitus, but killed him in spite of everything, and kept the mares himself. It was when claiming these that Iphitus met Ulysses, and gave him the bow which mighty Eurytus had been used to carry, and which on his death had been left by him to his son. Ulysses gave him in return a sword and a spear, and this was the beginning of a fast friendship, although they never visited at one another’s houses, for Jove’s son Hercules killed Iphitus ere they could do so. This bow, then, given him by Iphitus, had not been taken with him by Ulysses when he sailed for Troy; he had used it so long as he had been at home, but had left it behind as having been a keepsake from a valued friend.  Penelope presently reached the oak threshold of the store-room; the carpenter had planed this duly, and had drawn a line on it so as to get it quite straight; he had then set the door posts into it and hung the doors. She loosed the strap from the handle of the door, put in the key, and drove it straight home to shoot back the bolts that held the doors;161 these flew open with a noise like a bull bellowing in a meadow, and Penelope stepped upon the raised platform, where the chests stood in which the fair linen and clothes were laid by along with fragrant herbs: reaching thence, she took down the bow with its bow case from the peg on which it hung. She sat down with it on her knees, weeping bitterly as she took the bow out of its case, and when her tears had relieved her, she went to the cloister where the suitors were, carrying the bow and the quiver, with the many deadly arrows that were inside it. Along with her came her maidens, bearing a chest that contained much iron and bronze which her husband had won as prizes. When she reached the suitors, she stood by one of the bearing-posts supporting the roof of the cloister, holding a veil before her face, and with a maid on either side of her. Then she said:  “Listen to me you suitors, who persist in abusing the hospitality of this house because its owner has been long absent, and without other pretext than that you want to marry me; this, then, being the prize that you are contending for, I will bring out the mighty bow of Ulysses, and whomsoever of you shall string it most easily and send his arrow through each one of twelve axes, him will I follow and quit this house of my lawful husband, so goodly, and so abounding in wealth. But even so I doubt not that I shall remember it in my dreams.”  As she spoke, she told Eumaeus to set the bow and the pieces of iron before the suitors, and Eumaeus wept as he took them to do as she had bidden him. Hard by, the stockman wept also when he saw his master’s bow, but Antinous scolded them. “You country louts,” said he, “silly simpletons; why should you add to the sorrows of your mistress by crying in this way? She has enough to grieve her in the loss of her husband; sit still, therefore, and eat your dinners in silence, or go outside if you want to cry, and leave the bow behind you. We suitors shall have to contend for it with might and main, for we shall find it no light matter to string such a bow as this is. There is not a man of us all who is such another as Ulysses; for I have seen him and remember him, though I was then only a child.”  This was what he said, but all the time he was expecting to be able to string the bow and shoot through the iron, whereas in fact he was to be the first that should taste of the arrows from the hands of Ulysses, whom he was dishonouring in his own house—egging the others on to do so also.  Then Telemachus spoke. “Great heavens!” he exclaimed, “Jove must have robbed me of my senses. Here is my dear and excellent mother saying she will quit this house and marry again, yet I am laughing and enjoying myself as though there were nothing happening. But, suitors, as the contest has been agreed upon, let it go forward. It is for a woman whose peer is not to be found in Pylos, Argos, or Mycene, nor yet in Ithaca nor on the mainland. You know this as well as I do; what need have I to speak in praise of my mother? Come on, then, make no excuses for delay, but let us see whether you can string the bow or no. I too will make trial of it, for if I can string it and shoot through the iron, I shall not suffer my mother to quit this house with a stranger, not if I can win the prizes which my father won before me.”  As he spoke he sprang from his seat, threw his crimson cloak from him, and took his sword from his shoulder. First he set the axes in a row, in a long groove which he had dug for them, and had made straight by line.162 Then he stamped the earth tight round them, and everyone was surprised when they saw him set them up so orderly, though he had never seen anything of the kind before. This done, he went on to the pavement to make trial of the bow; thrice did he tug at it, trying with all his might to draw the string, and thrice he had to leave off, though he had hoped to string the bow and shoot through the iron. He was trying for the fourth time, and would have strung it had not Ulysses made a sign to check him in spite of all his eagerness. So he said:  “Alas! I shall either be always feeble and of no prowess, or I am too young, and have not yet reached my full strength so as to be able to hold my own if any one attacks me. You others, therefore, who are stronger than I, make trial of the bow and get this contest settled.”  On this he put the bow down, letting it lean against the door [that led into the house] with the arrow standing against the top of the bow. Then he sat down on the seat from which he had risen, and Antinous said:  “Come on each of you in his turn, going towards the right from the place at which the cupbearer begins when he is handing round the wine.”  The rest agreed, and Leiodes son of Oenops was the first to rise. He was sacrificial priest to the suitors, and sat in the corner near the mixing-bowl. 163 He was the only man who hated their evil deeds and was indignant with the others. He was now the first to take the bow and arrow, so he went on to the pavement to make his trial, but he could not string the bow, for his hands were weak and unused to hard work, they therefore soon grew tired, and he said to the suitors, “My friends, I cannot string it; let another have it, this bow shall take the life and soul out of many a chief among us, for it is better to die than to live after having missed the prize that we have so long striven for, and which has brought us so long together. Some one of us is even now hoping and praying that he may marry Penelope, but when he has seen this bow and tried it, let him woo and make bridal offerings to some other woman, and let Penelope marry whoever makes her the best offer and whose lot it is to win her.”  On this he put the bow down, letting it lean against the door,164 with the arrow standing against the tip of the bow. Then he took his seat again on the seat from which he had risen; and Antinous rebuked him saying:  “Leiodes, what are you talking about? Your words are monstrous and intolerable; it makes me angry to listen to you. Shall, then, this bow take the life of many a chief among us, merely because you cannot bend it yourself? True, you were not born to be an archer, but there are others who will soon string it.”  Then he said to Melanthius the goatherd, “Look sharp, light a fire in the court, and set a seat hard by with a sheep skin on it; bring us also a large ball of lard, from what they have in the house. Let us warm the bow and grease it—we will then make trial of it again, and bring the contest to an end.”  Melanthius lit the fire, and set a seat covered with sheep skins beside it. He also brought a great ball of lard from what they had in the house, and the suitors warmed the bow and again made trial of it, but they were none of them nearly strong enough to string it. Nevertheless there still remained Antinous and Eurymachus, who were the ringleaders among the suitors and much the foremost among them all.  Then the swineherd and the stockman left the cloisters together, and Ulysses followed them. When they had got outside the gates and the outer yard, Ulysses said to them quietly:  “Stockman, and you swineherd, I have something in my mind which I am in doubt whether to say or no; but I think I will say it. What manner of men would you be to stand by Ulysses, if some god should bring him back here all of a sudden? Say which you are disposed to do—to side with the suitors, or with Ulysses?”  “Father Jove,” answered the stockman, “would indeed that you might so ordain it. If some god were but to bring Ulysses back, you should see with what might and main I would fight for him.”  In like words Eumaeus prayed to all the gods that Ulysses might return; when, therefore, he saw for certain what mind they were of, Ulysses said, “It is I, Ulysses, who am here. I have suffered much, but at last, in the twentieth year, I am come back to my own country. I find that you two alone of all my servants are glad that I should do so, for I have not heard any of the others praying for my return. To you two, therefore, will I unfold the truth as it shall be. If heaven shall deliver the suitors into my hands, I will find wives for both of you, will give you house and holding close to my own, and you shall be to me as though you were brothers and friends of Telemachus. I will now give you convincing proofs that you may know me and be assured. See, here is the scar from the boar’s tooth that ripped me when I was out hunting on Mt. Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.”  As he spoke he drew his rags aside from the great scar, and when they had examined it thoroughly, they both of them wept about Ulysses, threw their arms round him, and kissed his head and shoulders, while Ulysses kissed their hands and faces in return. The sun would have gone down upon their mourning if Ulysses had not checked them and said:  “Cease your weeping, lest some one should come outside and see us, and tell those who are within. When you go in, do so separately, not both together; I will go first, and do you follow afterwards; let this moreover be the token between us; the suitors will all of them try to prevent me from getting hold of the bow and quiver; do you, therefore, Eumaeus, place it in my hands when you are carrying it about, and tell the women to close the doors of their apartment. If they hear any groaning or uproar as of men fighting about the house, they must not come out; they must keep quiet, and stay where they are at their work. And I charge you, Philoetius, to make fast the doors of the outer court, and to bind them securely at once.”  When he had thus spoken, he went back to the house and took the seat that he had left. Presently, his two servants followed him inside.  At this moment the bow was in the hands of Eurymachus, who was warming it by the fire, but even so he could not string it, and he was greatly grieved. He heaved a deep sigh and said, “I grieve for myself and for us all; I grieve that I shall have to forgo the marriage, but I do not care nearly so much about this, for there are plenty of other women in Ithaca and elsewhere; what I feel most is the fact of our being so inferior to Ulysses in strength that we cannot string his bow. This will disgrace us in the eyes of those who are yet unborn.”  “It shall not be so, Eurymachus,” said Antinous, “and you know it yourself. Today is the feast of Apollo throughout all the land; who can string a bow on such a day as this? Put it on one side—as for the axes they can stay where they are, for no one is likely to come to the house and take them away: let the cupbearer go round with his cups, that we may make our drink-offerings and drop this matter of the bow; we will tell Melanthius to bring us in some goats tomorrow—the best he has; we can then offer thigh bones to Apollo the mighty archer, and again make trial of the bow, so as to bring the contest to an end.”  The rest approved his words, and thereon men servants poured water over the hands of the guests, while pages filled the mixing-bowls with wine and water and handed it round after giving every man his drink-offering. Then, when they had made their offerings and had drunk each as much as he desired, Ulysses craftily said:—  “Suitors of the illustrious queen, listen that I may speak even as I am minded. I appeal more especially to Eurymachus, and to Antinous who has just spoken with so much reason. Cease shooting for the present and leave the matter to the gods, but in the morning let heaven give victory to whom it will. For the moment, however, give me the bow that I may prove the power of my hands among you all, and see whether I still have as much strength as I used to have, or whether travel and neglect have made an end of it.”  This made them all very angry, for they feared he might string the bow, Antinous therefore rebuked him fiercely saying, “Wretched creature, you have not so much as a grain of sense in your whole body; you ought to think yourself lucky in being allowed to dine unharmed among your betters, without having any smaller portion served you than we others have had, and in being allowed to hear our conversation. No other beggar or stranger has been allowed to hear what we say among ourselves; the wine must have been doing you a mischief, as it does with all those who drink immoderately. It was wine that inflamed the Centaur Eurytion when he was staying with Peirithous among the Lapithae. When the wine had got into his head, he went mad and did ill deeds about the house of Peirithous; this angered the heroes who were there assembled, so they rushed at him and cut off his ears and nostrils; then they dragged him through the doorway out of the house, so he went away crazed, and bore the burden of his crime, bereft of understanding. Henceforth, therefore, there was war between mankind and the centaurs, but he brought it upon himself through his own drunkenness. In like manner I can tell you that it will go hardly with you if you string the bow: you will find no mercy from any one here, for we shall at once ship you off to king Echetus, who kills every one that comes near him: you will never get away alive, so drink and keep quiet without getting into a quarrel with men younger than yourself.”  Penelope then spoke to him. “Antinous,” said she, “it is not right that you should ill-treat any guest of Telemachus who comes to this house. If the stranger should prove strong enough to string the mighty bow of Ulysses, can you suppose that he would take me home with him and make me his wife? Even the man himself can have no such idea in his mind: none of you need let that disturb his feasting; it would be out of all reason.”  “Queen Penelope,” answered Eurymachus, “we do not suppose that this man will take you away with him; it is impossible; but we are afraid lest some of the baser sort, men or women among the Achaeans, should go gossiping about and say, ‘These suitors are a feeble folk; they are paying court to the wife of a brave man whose bow not one of them was able to string, and yet a beggarly tramp who came to the house strung it at once and sent an arrow through the iron.’ This is what will be said, and it will be a scandal against us.”  “Eurymachus,” Penelope answered, “people who persist in eating up the estate of a great chieftain and dishonouring his house must not expect others to think well of them. Why then should you mind if men talk as you think they will? This stranger is strong and well-built, he says moreover that he is of noble birth. Give him the bow, and let us see whether he can string it or no. I say—and it shall surely be—that if Apollo vouchsafes him the glory of stringing it, I will give him a cloak and shirt of good wear, with a javelin to keep off dogs and robbers, and a sharp sword. I will also give him sandals, and will see him sent safely wherever he wants to go.”  Then Telemachus said, “Mother, I am the only man either in Ithaca or in the islands that are over against Elis who has the right to let any one have the bow or to refuse it. No one shall force me one way or the other, not even though I choose to make the stranger a present of the bow outright, and let him take it away with him. Go, then, within the house and busy yourself with your daily duties, your loom, your distaff, and the ordering of your servants. This bow is a man’s matter, and mine above all others, for it is I who am master here.”  She went wondering back into the house, and laid her son’s saying in her heart. Then going upstairs with her handmaids into her room, she mourned her dear husband till Minerva sent sweet sleep over her eyelids.  The swineherd now took up the bow and was for taking it to Ulysses, but the suitors clamoured at him from all parts of the cloisters, and one of them said, “You idiot, where are you taking the bow to? Are you out of your wits? If Apollo and the other gods will grant our prayer, your own boarhounds shall get you into some quiet little place, and worry you to death.”  Eumaeus was frightened at the outcry they all raised, so he put the bow down then and there, but Telemachus shouted out at him from the other side of the cloisters, and threatened him saying, “Father Eumaeus, bring the bow on in spite of them, or young as I am I will pelt you with stones back to the country, for I am the better man of the two. I wish I was as much stronger than all the other suitors in the house as I am than you, I would soon send some of them off sick and sorry, for they mean mischief.”  Thus did he speak, and they all of them laughed heartily, which put them in a better humour with Telemachus; so Eumaeus brought the bow on and placed it in the hands of Ulysses. When he had done this, he called Euryclea apart and said to her, “Euryclea, Telemachus says you are to close the doors of the women’s apartments. If they hear any groaning or uproar as of men fighting about the house, they are not to come out, but are to keep quiet and stay where they are at their work.”  Euryclea did as she was told and closed the doors of the women’s apartments.  Meanwhile Philoetius slipped quietly out and made fast the gates of the outer court. There was a ship’s cable of byblus fibre lying in the gatehouse, so he made the gates fast with it and then came in again, resuming the seat that he had left, and keeping an eye on Ulysses, who had now got the bow in his hands, and was turning it every way about, and proving it all over to see whether the worms had been eating into its two horns during his absence. Then would one turn towards his neighbour saying, “This is some tricky old bow-fancier; either he has got one like it at home, or he wants to make one, in such workmanlike style does the old vagabond handle it.”  Another said, “I hope he may be no more successful in other things than he is likely to be in stringing this bow.”  But Ulysses, when he had taken it up and examined it all over, strung it as easily as a skilled bard strings a new peg of his lyre and makes the twisted gut fast at both ends. Then he took it in his right hand to prove the string, and it sang sweetly under his touch like the twittering of a swallow. The suitors were dismayed, and turned colour as they heard it; at that moment, moreover, Jove thundered loudly as a sign, and the heart of Ulysses rejoiced as he heard the omen that the son of scheming Saturn had sent him.  He took an arrow that was lying upon the table165—for those which the Achaeans were so shortly about to taste were all inside the quiver—he laid it on the centre-piece of the bow, and drew the notch of the arrow and the string toward him, still seated on his seat. When he had taken aim he let fly, and his arrow pierced every one of the handle-holes of the axes from the first onwards till it had gone right through them, and into the outer courtyard. Then he said to Telemachus:  “Your guest has not disgraced you, Telemachus. I did not miss what I aimed at, and I was not long in stringing my bow. I am still strong, and not as the suitors twit me with being. Now, however, it is time for the Achaeans to prepare supper while there is still daylight, and then otherwise to disport themselves with song and dance which are the crowning ornaments of a banquet.”  As he spoke he made a sign with his eyebrows, and Telemachus girded on his sword, grasped his spear, and stood armed beside his father’s seat.     BOOK XXII   THE KILLING OF THE SUITORS—THE MAIDS WHO HAVE MISCONDUCTED THEMSELVES ARE MADE TO CLEANSE THE CLOISTERS AND ARE THEN HANGED.   Then Ulysses tore off his rags, and sprang on to the broad pavement with his bow and his quiver full of arrows. He shed the arrows on to the ground at his feet and said, “The mighty contest is at an end. I will now see whether Apollo will vouchsafe it to me to hit another mark which no man has yet hit.”  On this he aimed a deadly arrow at Antinous, who was about to take up a two-handled gold cup to drink his wine and already had it in his hands. He had no thought of death—who amongst all the revellers would think that one man, however brave, would stand alone among so many and kill him? The arrow struck Antinous in the throat, and the point went clean through his neck, so that he fell over and the cup dropped from his hand, while a thick stream of blood gushed from his nostrils. He kicked the table from him and upset the things on it, so that the bread and roasted meats were all soiled as they fell over on to the ground.166 The suitors were in an uproar when they saw that a man had been hit; they sprang in dismay one and all of them from their seats and looked everywhere towards the walls, but there was neither shield nor spear, and they rebuked Ulysses very angrily. “Stranger,” said they, “you shall pay for shooting people in this way: you shall see no other contest; you are a doomed man; he whom you have slain was the foremost youth in Ithaca, and the vultures shall devour you for having killed him.”  Thus they spoke, for they thought that he had killed Antinous by mistake, and did not perceive that death was hanging over the head of every one of them. But Ulysses glared at them and said:  “Dogs, did you think that I should not come back from Troy? You have wasted my substance,167 have forced my women servants to lie with you, and have wooed my wife while I was still living. You have feared neither God nor man, and now you shall die.”  They turned pale with fear as he spoke, and every man looked round about to see whither he might fly for safety, but Eurymachus alone spoke.  “If you are Ulysses,” said he, “then what you have said is just. We have done much wrong on your lands and in your house. But Antinous who was the head and front of the offending lies low already. It was all his doing. It was not that he wanted to marry Penelope; he did not so much care about that; what he wanted was something quite different, and Jove has not vouchsafed it to him; he wanted to kill your son and to be chief man in Ithaca. Now, therefore, that he has met the death which was his due, spare the lives of your people. We will make everything good among ourselves, and pay you in full for all that we have eaten and drunk. Each one of us shall pay you a fine worth twenty oxen, and we will keep on giving you gold and bronze till your heart is softened. Until we have done this no one can complain of your being enraged against us.”  Ulysses again glared at him and said, “Though you should give me all that you have in the world both now and all that you ever shall have, I will not stay my hand till I have paid all of you in full. You must fight, or fly for your lives; and fly, not a man of you shall.”  Their hearts sank as they heard him, but Eurymachus again spoke saying:  “My friends, this man will give us no quarter. He will stand where he is and shoot us down till he has killed every man among us. Let us then show fight; draw your swords, and hold up the tables to shield you from his arrows. Let us have at him with a rush, to drive him from the pavement and doorway: we can then get through into the town, and raise such an alarm as shall soon stay his shooting.”  As he spoke he drew his keen blade of bronze, sharpened on both sides, and with a loud cry sprang towards Ulysses, but Ulysses instantly shot an arrow into his breast that caught him by the nipple and fixed itself in his liver. He dropped his sword and fell doubled up over his table. The cup and all the meats went over on to the ground as he smote the earth with his forehead in the agonies of death, and he kicked the stool with his feet until his eyes were closed in darkness.  Then Amphinomus drew his sword and made straight at Ulysses to try and get him away from the door; but Telemachus was too quick for him, and struck him from behind; the spear caught him between the shoulders and went right through his chest, so that he fell heavily to the ground and struck the earth with his forehead. Then Telemachus sprang away from him, leaving his spear still in the body, for he feared that if he stayed to draw it out, some one of the Achaeans might come up and hack at him with his sword, or knock him down, so he set off at a run, and immediately was at his father’s side. Then he said:  “Father, let me bring you a shield, two spears, and a brass helmet for your temples. I will arm myself as well, and will bring other armour for the swineherd and the stockman, for we had better be armed.”  “Run and fetch them,” answered Ulysses, “while my arrows hold out, or when I am alone they may get me away from the door.”  Telemachus did as his father said, and went off to the store room where the armour was kept. He chose four shields, eight spears, and four brass helmets with horse-hair plumes. He brought them with all speed to his father, and armed himself first, while the stockman and the swineherd also put on their armour, and took their places near Ulysses. Meanwhile Ulysses, as long as his arrows lasted, had been shooting the suitors one by one, and they fell thick on one another: when his arrows gave out, he set the bow to stand against the end wall of the house by the door post, and hung a shield four hides thick about his shoulders; on his comely head he set his helmet, well wrought with a crest of horse-hair that nodded menacingly above it,168 and he grasped two redoubtable bronze-shod spears.  Now there was a trap door169 on the wall, while at one end of the pavement170 there was an exit leading to a narrow passage, and this exit was closed by a well-made door. Ulysses told Philoetius to stand by this door and guard it, for only one person could attack it at a time. But Agelaus shouted out, “Cannot some one go up to the trap door and tell the people what is going on? Help would come at once, and we should soon make an end of this man and his shooting.”  “This may not be, Agelaus,” answered Melanthius, “the mouth of the narrow passage is dangerously near the entrance to the outer court. One brave man could prevent any number from getting in. But I know what I will do, I will bring you arms from the store-room, for I am sure it is there that Ulysses and his son have put them.”  On this the goatherd Melanthius went by back passages to the store-room of Ulysses’ house. There he chose twelve shields, with as many helmets and spears, and brought them back as fast as he could to give them to the suitors. Ulysses’ heart began to fail him when he saw the suitors171 putting on their armour and brandishing their spears. He saw the greatness of the danger, and said to Telemachus, “Some one of the women inside is helping the suitors against us, or it may be Melanthius.”  Telemachus answered, “The fault, father, is mine, and mine only; I left the store room door open, and they have kept a sharper look out than I have. Go, Eumaeus, put the door to, and see whether it is one of the women who is doing this, or whether, as I suspect, it is Melanthius the son of Dolius.”  Thus did they converse. Meanwhile Melanthius was again going to the store room to fetch more armour, but the swineherd saw him and said to Ulysses who was beside him, “Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, it is that scoundrel Melanthius, just as we suspected, who is going to the store room. Say, shall I kill him, if I can get the better of him, or shall I bring him here that you may take your own revenge for all the many wrongs that he has done in your house?”  Ulysses answered, “Telemachus and I will hold these suitors in check, no matter what they do; go back both of you and bind Melanthius’ hands and feet behind him. Throw him into the store room and make the door fast behind you; then fasten a noose about his body, and string him close up to the rafters from a high bearing-post,172 that he may linger on in an agony.”  Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said; they went to the store room, which they entered before Melanthius saw them, for he was busy searching for arms in the innermost part of the room, so the two took their stand on either side of the door and waited. By and by Melanthius came out with a helmet in one hand, and an old dry-rotted shield in the other, which had been borne by Laertes when he was young, but which had been long since thrown aside, and the straps had become unsewn; on this the two seized him, dragged him back by the hair, and threw him struggling to the ground. They bent his hands and feet well behind his back, and bound them tight with a painful bond as Ulysses had told them; then they fastened a noose about his body and strung him up from a high pillar till he was close up to the rafters, and over him did you then vaunt, O swineherd Eumaeus saying, “Melanthius, you will pass the night on a soft bed as you deserve. You will know very well when morning comes from the streams of Oceanus, and it is time for you to be driving in your goats for the suitors to feast on.”  There, then, they left him in very cruel bondage, and having put on their armour they closed the door behind them and went back to take their places by the side of Ulysses; whereon the four men stood in the cloister, fierce and full of fury; nevertheless, those who were in the body of the court were still both brave and many. Then Jove’s daughter Minerva came up to them, having assumed the voice and form of Mentor. Ulysses was glad when he saw her and said, “Mentor, lend me your help, and forget not your old comrade, nor the many good turns he has done you. Besides, you are my age-mate.”  But all the time he felt sure it was Minerva, and the suitors from the other side raised an uproar when they saw her. Agelaus was the first to reproach her. “Mentor,” he cried, “do not let Ulysses beguile you into siding with him and fighting the suitors. This is what we will do: when we have killed these people, father and son, we will kill you too. You shall pay for it with your head, and when we have killed you, we will take all you have, in doors or out, and bring it into hotch-pot with Ulysses’ property; we will not let your sons live in your house, nor your daughters, nor shall your widow continue to live in the city of Ithaca.”  This made Minerva still more furious, so she scolded Ulysses very angrily.173 “Ulysses,” said she, “your strength and prowess are no longer what they were when you fought for nine long years among the Trojans about the noble lady Helen. You killed many a man in those days, and it was through your stratagem that Priam’s city was taken. How comes it that you are so lamentably less valiant now that you are on your own ground, face to face with the suitors in your own house? Come on, my good fellow, stand by my side and see how Mentor, son of Alcimus shall fight your foes and requite your kindnesses conferred upon him.”  But she would not give him full victory as yet, for she wished still further to prove his own prowess and that of his brave son, so she flew up to one of the rafters in the roof of the cloister and sat upon it in the form of a swallow.  Meanwhile Agelaus son of Damastor, Eurynomus, Amphimedon, Demoptolemus, Pisander, and Polybus son of Polyctor bore the brunt of the fight upon the suitors’ side; of all those who were still fighting for their lives they were by far the most valiant, for the others had already fallen under the arrows of Ulysses. Agelaus shouted to them and said, “My friends, he will soon have to leave off, for Mentor has gone away after having done nothing for him but brag. They are standing at the doors unsupported. Do not aim at him all at once, but six of you throw your spears first, and see if you cannot cover yourselves with glory by killing him. When he has fallen we need not be uneasy about the others.”  They threw their spears as he bade them, but Minerva made them all of no effect. One hit the door post; another went against the door; the pointed shaft of another struck the wall; and as soon as they had avoided all the spears of the suitors Ulysses said to his own men, “My friends, I should say we too had better let drive into the middle of them, or they will crown all the harm they have done us by killing us outright.”  They therefore aimed straight in front of them and threw their spears. Ulysses killed Demoptolemus, Telemachus Euryades, Eumaeus Elatus, while the stockman killed Pisander. These all bit the dust, and as the others drew back into a corner Ulysses and his men rushed forward and regained their spears by drawing them from the bodies of the dead.  The suitors now aimed a second time, but again Minerva made their weapons for the most part without effect. One hit a bearing-post of the cloister; another went against the door; while the pointed shaft of another struck the wall. Still, Amphimedon just took a piece of the top skin from off Telemachus’s wrist, and Ctesippus managed to graze Eumaeus’s shoulder above his shield; but the spear went on and fell to the ground. Then Ulysses and his men let drive into the crowd of suitors. Ulysses hit Eurydamas, Telemachus Amphimedon, and Eumaeus Polybus. After this the stockman hit Ctesippus in the breast, and taunted him saying, “Foul-mouthed son of Polytherses, do not be so foolish as to talk wickedly another time, but let heaven direct your speech, for the gods are far stronger than men. I make you a present of this advice to repay you for the foot which you gave Ulysses when he was begging about in his own house.”  Thus spoke the stockman, and Ulysses struck the son of Damastor with a spear in close fight, while Telemachus hit Leocritus son of Evenor in the belly, and the dart went clean through him, so that he fell forward full on his face upon the ground. Then Minerva from her seat on the rafter held up her deadly aegis, and the hearts of the suitors quailed. They fled to the other end of the court like a herd of cattle maddened by the gadfly in early summer when the days are at their longest. As eagle-beaked, crook-taloned vultures from the mountains swoop down on the smaller birds that cower in flocks upon the ground, and kill them, for they cannot either fight or fly, and lookers on enjoy the sport—even so did Ulysses and his men fall upon the suitors and smite them on every side. They made a horrible groaning as their brains were being battered in, and the ground seethed with their blood.  Leiodes then caught the knees of Ulysses and said, “Ulysses I beseech you have mercy upon me and spare me. I never wronged any of the women in your house either in word or deed, and I tried to stop the others. I saw them, but they would not listen, and now they are paying for their folly. I was their sacrificing priest; if you kill me, I shall die without having done anything to deserve it, and shall have got no thanks for all the good that I did.”  Ulysses looked sternly at him and answered, “If you were their sacrificing priest, you must have prayed many a time that it might be long before I got home again, and that you might marry my wife and have children by her. Therefore you shall die.”  With these words he picked up the sword that Agelaus had dropped when he was being killed, and which was lying upon the ground. Then he struck Leiodes on the back of his neck, so that his head fell rolling in the dust while he was yet speaking.  The minstrel Phemius son of Terpes—he who had been forced by the suitors to sing to them—now tried to save his life. He was standing near towards the trap door,174 and held his lyre in his hand. He did not know whether to fly out of the cloister and sit down by the altar of Jove that was in the outer court, and on which both Laertes and Ulysses had offered up the thigh bones of many an ox, or whether to go straight up to Ulysses and embrace his knees, but in the end he deemed it best to embrace Ulysses’ knees. So he laid his lyre on the ground between the mixing bowl 175 and the silver-studded seat; then going up to Ulysses he caught hold of his knees and said, “Ulysses, I beseech you have mercy on me and spare me. You will be sorry for it afterwards if you kill a bard who can sing both for gods and men as I can. I make all my lays myself, and heaven visits me with every kind of inspiration. I would sing to you as though you were a god, do not therefore be in such a hurry to cut my head off. Your own son Telemachus will tell you that I did not want to frequent your house and sing to the suitors after their meals, but they were too many and too strong for me, so they made me.”  Telemachus heard him, and at once went up to his father. “Hold!” he cried, “the man is guiltless, do him no hurt; and we will spare Medon too, who was always good to me when I was a boy, unless Philoetius or Eumaeus has already killed him, or he has fallen in your way when you were raging about the court.”  Medon caught these words of Telemachus, for he was crouching under a seat beneath which he had hidden by covering himself up with a freshly flayed heifer’s hide, so he threw off the hide, went up to Telemachus, and laid hold of his knees.  “Here I am, my dear sir,” said he, “stay your hand therefore, and tell your father, or he will kill me in his rage against the suitors for having wasted his substance and been so foolishly disrespectful to yourself.”  Ulysses smiled at him and answered, “Fear not; Telemachus has saved your life, that you may know in future, and tell other people, how greatly better good deeds prosper than evil ones. Go, therefore, outside the cloisters into the outer court, and be out of the way of the slaughter—you and the bard—while I finish my work here inside.”  The pair went into the outer court as fast as they could, and sat down by Jove’s great altar, looking fearfully round, and still expecting that they would be killed. Then Ulysses searched the whole court carefully over, to see if anyone had managed to hide himself and was still living, but he found them all lying in the dust and weltering in their blood. They were like fishes which fishermen have netted out of the sea, and thrown upon the beach to lie gasping for water till the heat of the sun makes an end of them. Even so were the suitors lying all huddled up one against the other.  Then Ulysses said to Telemachus, “Call nurse Euryclea; I have something to say to her.”  Telemachus went and knocked at the door of the women’s room. “Make haste,” said he, “you old woman who have been set over all the other women in the house. Come outside; my father wishes to speak to you.”  When Euryclea heard this she unfastened the door of the women’s room and came out, following Telemachus. She found Ulysses among the corpses bespattered with blood and filth like a lion that has just been devouring an ox, and his breast and both his cheeks are all bloody, so that he is a fearful sight; even so was Ulysses besmirched from head to foot with gore. When she saw all the corpses and such a quantity of blood, she was beginning to cry out for joy, for she saw that a great deed had been done; but Ulysses checked her, “Old woman,” said he, “rejoice in silence; restrain yourself, and do not make any noise about it; it is an unholy thing to vaunt over dead men. Heaven’s doom and their own evil deeds have brought these men to destruction, for they respected no man in the whole world, neither rich nor poor, who came near them, and they have come to a bad end as a punishment for their wickedness and folly. Now, however, tell me which of the women in the house have misconducted themselves, and who are innocent.”176  “I will tell you the truth, my son,” answered Euryclea. “There are fifty women in the house whom we teach to do things, such as carding wool, and all kinds of household work. Of these, twelve in all177 have misbehaved, and have been wanting in respect to me, and also to Penelope. They showed no disrespect to Telemachus, for he has only lately grown and his mother never permitted him to give orders to the female servants; but let me go upstairs and tell your wife all that has happened, for some god has been sending her to sleep.”  “Do not wake her yet,” answered Ulysses, “but tell the women who have misconducted themselves to come to me.”  Euryclea left the cloister to tell the women, and make them come to Ulysses; in the meantime he called Telemachus, the stockman, and the swineherd. “Begin,” said he, “to remove the dead, and make the women help you. Then, get sponges and clean water to swill down the tables and seats. When you have thoroughly cleansed the whole cloisters, take the women into the space between the domed room and the wall of the outer court, and run them through with your swords till they are quite dead, and have forgotten all about love and the way in which they used to lie in secret with the suitors.”  On this the women came down in a body, weeping and wailing bitterly. First they carried the dead bodies out, and propped them up against one another in the gatehouse. Ulysses ordered them about and made them do their work quickly, so they had to carry the bodies out. When they had done this, they cleaned all the tables and seats with sponges and water, while Telemachus and the two others shovelled up the blood and dirt from the ground, and the women carried it all away and put it out of doors. Then when they had made the whole place quite clean and orderly, they took the women out and hemmed them in the narrow space between the wall of the domed room and that of the yard, so that they could not get away: and Telemachus said to the other two, “I shall not let these women die a clean death, for they were insolent to me and my mother, and used to sleep with the suitors.”  So saying he made a ship’s cable fast to one of the bearing-posts that supported the roof of the domed room, and secured it all around the building, at a good height, lest any of the women’s feet should touch the ground; and as thrushes or doves beat against a net that has been set for them in a thicket just as they were getting to their nest, and a terrible fate awaits them, even so did the women have to put their heads in nooses one after the other and die most miserably.178 Their feet moved convulsively for a while, but not for very long.  As for Melanthius, they took him through the cloister into the inner court. There they cut off his nose and his ears; they drew out his vitals and gave them to the dogs raw, and then in their fury they cut off his hands and his feet.  When they had done this they washed their hands and feet and went back into the house, for all was now over; and Ulysses said to the dear old nurse Euryclea, “Bring me sulphur, which cleanses all pollution, and fetch fire also that I may burn it, and purify the cloisters. Go, moreover, and tell Penelope to come here with her attendants, and also all the maidservants that are in the house.”  “All that you have said is true,” answered Euryclea, “but let me bring you some clean clothes—a shirt and cloak. Do not keep these rags on your back any longer. It is not right.”  “First light me a fire,” replied Ulysses.  She brought the fire and sulphur, as he had bidden her, and Ulysses thoroughly purified the cloisters and both the inner and outer courts. Then she went inside to call the women and tell them what had happened; whereon they came from their apartment with torches in their hands, and pressed round Ulysses to embrace him, kissing his head and shoulders and taking hold of his hands. It made him feel as if he should like to weep, for he remembered every one of them.179     BOOK XXIII   PENELOPE EVENTUALLY RECOGNISES HER HUSBAND—EARLY IN THE MORNING ULYSSES, TELEMACHUS, EUMAEUS, AND PHILOETIUS LEAVE THE TOWN.   Euryclea now went upstairs laughing to tell her mistress that her dear husband had come home. Her aged knees became young again and her feet were nimble for joy as she went up to her mistress and bent over her head to speak to her. “Wake up Penelope, my dear child,” she exclaimed, “and see with your own eyes something that you have been wanting this long time past. Ulysses has at last indeed come home again, and has killed the suitors who were giving so much trouble in his house, eating up his estate and ill treating his son.”  “My good nurse,” answered Penelope, “you must be mad. The gods sometimes send some very sensible people out of their minds, and make foolish people become sensible. This is what they must have been doing to you; for you always used to be a reasonable person. Why should you thus mock me when I have trouble enough already—talking such nonsense, and waking me up out of a sweet sleep that had taken possession of my eyes and closed them? I have never slept so soundly from the day my poor husband went to that city with the ill-omened name. Go back again into the women’s room; if it had been any one else who had woke me up to bring me such absurd news I should have sent her away with a severe scolding. As it is your age shall protect you.”  “My dear child,” answered Euryclea, “I am not mocking you. It is quite true as I tell you that Ulysses is come home again. He was the stranger whom they all kept on treating so badly in the cloister. Telemachus knew all the time that he was come back, but kept his father’s secret that he might have his revenge on all these wicked people.”  Then Penelope sprang up from her couch, threw her arms round Euryclea, and wept for joy. “But my dear nurse,” said she, “explain this to me; if he has really come home as you say, how did he manage to overcome the wicked suitors single handed, seeing what a number of them there always were?”  “I was not there,” answered Euryclea, “and do not know; I only heard them groaning while they were being killed. We sat crouching and huddled up in a corner of the women’s room with the doors closed, till your son came to fetch me because his father sent him. Then I found Ulysses standing over the corpses that were lying on the ground all round him, one on top of the other. You would have enjoyed it if you could have seen him standing there all bespattered with blood and filth, and looking just like a lion. But the corpses are now all piled up in the gatehouse that is in the outer court, and Ulysses has lit a great fire to purify the house with sulphur. He has sent me to call you, so come with me that you may both be happy together after all; for now at last the desire of your heart has been fulfilled; your husband is come home to find both wife and son alive and well, and to take his revenge in his own house on the suitors who behaved so badly to him.”  “My dear nurse,” said Penelope, “do not exult too confidently over all this. You know how delighted every one would be to see Ulysses come home—more particularly myself, and the son who has been born to both of us; but what you tell me cannot be really true. It is some god who is angry with the suitors for their great wickedness, and has made an end of them; for they respected no man in the whole world, neither rich nor poor, who came near them, and they have come to a bad end in consequence of their iniquity; Ulysses is dead far away from the Achaean land; he will never return home again.”  Then nurse Euryclea said, “My child, what are you talking about? but you were all hard of belief and have made up your mind that your husband is never coming, although he is in the house and by his own fire side at this very moment. Besides I can give you another proof; when I was washing him I perceived the scar which the wild boar gave him, and I wanted to tell you about it, but in his wisdom he would not let me, and clapped his hands over my mouth; so come with me and I will make this bargain with you—if I am deceiving you, you may have me killed by the most cruel death you can think of.”  “My dear nurse,” said Penelope, “however wise you may be you can hardly fathom the counsels of the gods. Nevertheless, we will go in search of my son, that I may see the corpses of the suitors, and the man who has killed them.”  On this she came down from her upper room, and while doing so she considered whether she should keep at a distance from her husband and question him, or whether she should at once go up to him and embrace him. When, however, she had crossed the stone floor of the cloister, she sat down opposite Ulysses by the fire, against the wall at right angles180 [to that by which she had entered], while Ulysses sat near one of the bearing-posts, looking upon the ground, and waiting to see what his brave wife would say to him when she saw him. For a long time she sat silent and as one lost in amazement. At one moment she looked him full in the face, but then again directly, she was misled by his shabby clothes and failed to recognise him,181 till Telemachus began to reproach her and said:  “Mother—but you are so hard that I cannot call you by such a name—why do you keep away from my father in this way? Why do you not sit by his side and begin talking to him and asking him questions? No other woman could bear to keep away from her husband when he had come back to her after twenty years of absence, and after having gone through so much; but your heart always was as hard as a stone.”  Penelope answered, “My son, I am so lost in astonishment that I can find no words in which either to ask questions or to answer them. I cannot even look him straight in the face. Still, if he really is Ulysses come back to his own home again, we shall get to understand one another better by and by, for there are tokens with which we two are alone acquainted, and which are hidden from all others.”  Ulysses smiled at this, and said to Telemachus, “Let your mother put me to any proof she likes; she will make up her mind about it presently. She rejects me for the moment and believes me to be somebody else, because I am covered with dirt and have such bad clothes on; let us, however, consider what we had better do next. When one man has killed another—even though he was not one who would leave many friends to take up his quarrel—the man who has killed him must still say good bye to his friends and fly the country; whereas we have been killing the stay of a whole town, and all the picked youth of Ithaca. I would have you consider this matter.”  “Look to it yourself, father,” answered Telemachus, “for they say you are the wisest counsellor in the world, and that there is no other mortal man who can compare with you. We will follow you with right good will, nor shall you find us fail you in so far as our strength holds out.”  “I will say what I think will be best,” answered Ulysses. “First wash and put your shirts on; tell the maids also to go to their own room and dress; Phemius shall then strike up a dance tune on his lyre, so that if people outside hear, or any of the neighbours, or some one going along the street happens to notice it, they may think there is a wedding in the house, and no rumours about the death of the suitors will get about in the town, before we can escape to the woods upon my own land. Once there, we will settle which of the courses heaven vouchsafes us shall seem wisest.”  Thus did he speak, and they did even as he had said. First they washed and put their shirts on, while the women got ready. Then Phemius took his lyre and set them all longing for sweet song and stately dance. The house re-echoed with the sound of men and women dancing, and the people outside said, “I suppose the queen has been getting married at last. She ought to be ashamed of herself for not continuing to protect her husband’s property until he comes home.”182  This was what they said, but they did not know what it was that had been happening. The upper servant Eurynome washed and anointed Ulysses in his own house and gave him a shirt and cloak, while Minerva made him look taller and stronger than before; she also made the hair grow thick on the top of his head, and flow down in curls like hyacinth blossoms; she glorified him about the head and shoulders just as a skilful workman who has studied art of all kinds under Vulcan or Minerva—and his work is full of beauty—enriches a piece of silver plate by gilding it. He came from the bath looking like one of the immortals, and sat down opposite his wife on the seat he had left. “My dear,” said he, “heaven has endowed you with a heart more unyielding than woman ever yet had. No other woman could bear to keep away from her husband when he had come back to her after twenty years of absence, and after having gone through so much. But come, nurse, get a bed ready for me; I will sleep alone, for this woman has a heart as hard as iron.”  “My dear,” answered Penelope, “I have no wish to set myself up, nor to depreciate you; but I am not struck by your appearance, for I very well remember what kind of a man you were when you set sail from Ithaca. Nevertheless, Euryclea, take his bed outside the bed chamber that he himself built. Bring the bed outside this room, and put bedding upon it with fleeces, good coverlets, and blankets.”  She said this to try him, but Ulysses was very angry and said, “Wife, I am much displeased at what you have just been saying. Who has been taking my bed from the place in which I left it? He must have found it a hard task, no matter how skilled a workman he was, unless some god came and helped him to shift it. There is no man living, however strong and in his prime, who could move it from its place, for it is a marvellous curiosity which I made with my very own hands. There was a young olive growing within the precincts of the house, in full vigour, and about as thick as a bearing-post. I built my room round this with strong walls of stone and a roof to cover them, and I made the doors strong and well-fitting. Then I cut off the top boughs of the olive tree and left the stump standing. This I dressed roughly from the root upwards and then worked with carpenter’s tools well and skilfully, straightening my work by drawing a line on the wood, and making it into a bed-prop. I then bored a hole down the middle, and made it the centre-post of my bed, at which I worked till I had finished it, inlaying it with gold and silver; after this I stretched a hide of crimson leather from one side of it to the other. So you see I know all about it, and I desire to learn whether it is still there, or whether any one has been removing it by cutting down the olive tree at its roots.”  When she heard the sure proofs Ulysses now gave her, she fairly broke down. She flew weeping to his side, flung her arms about his neck, and kissed him. “Do not be angry with me Ulysses,” she cried, “you, who are the wisest of mankind. We have suffered, both of us. Heaven has denied us the happiness of spending our youth, and of growing old, together; do not then be aggrieved or take it amiss that I did not embrace you thus as soon as I saw you. I have been shuddering all the time through fear that someone might come here and deceive me with a lying story; for there are many very wicked people going about. Jove’s daughter Helen would never have yielded herself to a man from a foreign country, if she had known that the sons of Achaeans would come after her and bring her back. Heaven put it in her heart to do wrong, and she gave no thought to that sin, which has been the source of all our sorrows. Now, however, that you have convinced me by showing that you know all about our bed (which no human being has ever seen but you and I and a single maidservant, the daughter of Actor, who was given me by my father on my marriage, and who keeps the doors of our room) hard of belief though I have been I can mistrust no longer.”  Then Ulysses in his turn melted, and wept as he clasped his dear and faithful wife to his bosom. As the sight of land is welcome to men who are swimming towards the shore, when Neptune has wrecked their ship with the fury of his winds and waves; a few alone reach the land, and these, covered with brine, are thankful when they find themselves on firm ground and out of danger—even so was her husband welcome to her as she looked upon him, and she could not tear her two fair arms from about his neck. Indeed they would have gone on indulging their sorrow till rosy-fingered morn appeared, had not Minerva determined otherwise, and held night back in the far west, while she would not suffer Dawn to leave Oceanus, nor to yoke the two steeds Lampus and Phaethon that bear her onward to break the day upon mankind.  At last, however, Ulysses said, “Wife, we have not yet reached the end of our troubles. I have an unknown amount of toil still to undergo. It is long and difficult, but I must go through with it, for thus the shade of Teiresias prophesied concerning me, on the day when I went down into Hades to ask about my return and that of my companions. But now let us go to bed, that we may lie down and enjoy the blessed boon of sleep.”  “You shall go to bed as soon as you please,” replied Penelope, “now that the gods have sent you home to your own good house and to your country. But as heaven has put it in your mind to speak of it, tell me about the task that lies before you. I shall have to hear about it later, so it is better that I should be told at once.”  “My dear,” answered Ulysses, “why should you press me to tell you? Still, I will not conceal it from you, though you will not like it. I do not like it myself, for Teiresias bade me travel far and wide, carrying an oar, till I came to a country where the people have never heard of the sea, and do not even mix salt with their food. They know nothing about ships, nor oars that are as the wings of a ship. He gave me this certain token which I will not hide from you. He said that a wayfarer should meet me and ask me whether it was a winnowing shovel that I had on my shoulder. On this, I was to fix my oar in the ground and sacrifice a ram, a bull, and a boar to Neptune; after which I was to go home and offer hecatombs to all the gods in heaven, one after the other. As for myself, he said that death should come to me from the sea, and that my life should ebb away very gently when I was full of years and peace of mind, and my people should bless me. All this, he said, should surely come to pass.”  And Penelope said, “If the gods are going to vouchsafe you a happier time in your old age, you may hope then to have some respite from misfortune.”  Thus did they converse. Meanwhile Eurynome and the nurse took torches and made the bed ready with soft coverlets; as soon as they had laid them, the nurse went back into the house to go to her rest, leaving the bed chamber woman Eurynome183 to show Ulysses and Penelope to bed by torch light. When she had conducted them to their room she went back, and they then came joyfully to the rites of their own old bed. Telemachus, Philoetius, and the swineherd now left off dancing, and made the women leave off also. They then laid themselves down to sleep in the cloisters.  When Ulysses and Penelope had had their fill of love they fell talking with one another. She told him how much she had had to bear in seeing the house filled with a crowd of wicked suitors who had killed so many sheep and oxen on her account, and had drunk so many casks of wine. Ulysses in his turn told her what he had suffered, and how much trouble he had himself given to other people. He told her everything, and she was so delighted to listen that she never went to sleep till he had ended his whole story.  He began with his victory over the Cicons, and how he thence reached the fertile land of the Lotus-eaters. He told her all about the Cyclops and how he had punished him for having so ruthlessly eaten his brave comrades; how he then went on to Aeolus, who received him hospitably and furthered him on his way, but even so he was not to reach home, for to his great grief a hurricane carried him out to sea again; how he went on to the Laestrygonian city Telepylos, where the people destroyed all his ships with their crews, save himself and his own ship only. Then he told of cunning Circe and her craft, and how he sailed to the chill house of Hades, to consult the ghost of the Theban prophet Teiresias, and how he saw his old comrades in arms, and his mother who bore him and brought him up when he was a child; how he then heard the wondrous singing of the Sirens, and went on to the wandering rocks and terrible Charybdis and to Scylla, whom no man had ever yet passed in safety; how his men then ate the cattle of the sun-god, and how Jove therefore struck the ship with his thunderbolts, so that all his men perished together, himself alone being left alive; how at last he reached the Ogygian island and the nymph Calypso, who kept him there in a cave, and fed him, and wanted him to marry her, in which case she intended making him immortal so that he should never grow old, but she could not persuade him to let her do so; and how after much suffering he had found his way to the Phaeacians, who had treated him as though he had been a god, and sent him back in a ship to his own country after having given him gold, bronze, and raiment in great abundance. This was the last thing about which he told her, for here a deep sleep took hold upon him and eased the burden of his sorrows.  Then Minerva bethought her of another matter. When she deemed that Ulysses had had both of his wife and of repose, she bade gold-enthroned Dawn rise out of Oceanus that she might shed light upon mankind. On this, Ulysses rose from his comfortable bed and said to Penelope, “Wife, we have both of us had our full share of troubles, you, here, in lamenting my absence, and I in being prevented from getting home though I was longing all the time to do so. Now, however, that we have at last come together, take care of the property that is in the house. As for the sheep and goats which the wicked suitors have eaten, I will take many myself by force from other people, and will compel the Achaeans to make good the rest till they shall have filled all my yards. I am now going to the wooded lands out in the country to see my father who has so long been grieved on my account, and to yourself I will give these instructions, though you have little need of them. At sunrise it will at once get abroad that I have been killing the suitors; go upstairs, therefore,184 and stay there with your women. See nobody and ask no questions.”185  As he spoke he girded on his armour. Then he roused Telemachus, Philoetius, and Eumaeus, and told them all to put on their armour also. This they did, and armed themselves. When they had done so, they opened the gates and sallied forth, Ulysses leading the way. It was now daylight, but Minerva nevertheless concealed them in darkness and led them quickly out of the town.     BOOK XXIV   THE GHOSTS OF THE SUITORS IN HADES—ULYSSES AND HIS MEN GO TO THE HOUSE OF LAERTES—THE PEOPLE OF ITHACA COME OUT TO ATTACK ULYSSES, BUT MINERVA CONCLUDES A PEACE.   Then Mercury of Cyllene summoned the ghosts of the suitors, and in his hand he held the fair golden wand with which he seals men’s eyes in sleep or wakes them just as he pleases; with this he roused the ghosts and led them, while they followed whining and gibbering behind him. As bats fly squealing in the hollow of some great cave, when one of them has fallen out of the cluster in which they hang, even so did the ghosts whine and squeal as Mercury the healer of sorrow led them down into the dark abode of death. When they had passed the waters of Oceanus and the rock Leucas, they came to the gates of the sun and the land of dreams, whereon they reached the meadow of asphodel where dwell the souls and shadows of them that can labour no more.  Here they found the ghost of Achilles son of Peleus, with those of Patroclus, Antilochus, and Ajax, who was the finest and handsomest man of all the Danaans after the son of Peleus himself.  They gathered round the ghost of the son of Peleus, and the ghost of Agamemnon joined them, sorrowing bitterly. Round him were gathered also the ghosts of those who had perished with him in the house of Aegisthus; and the ghost of Achilles spoke first.  “Son of Atreus,” it said, “we used to say that Jove had loved you better from first to last than any other hero, for you were captain over many and brave men, when we were all fighting together before Troy; yet the hand of death, which no mortal can escape, was laid upon you all too early. Better for you had you fallen at Troy in the hey-day of your renown, for the Achaeans would have built a mound over your ashes, and your son would have been heir to your good name, whereas it has now been your lot to come to a most miserable end.”  “Happy son of Peleus,” answered the ghost of Agamemnon, “for having died at Troy far from Argos, while the bravest of the Trojans and the Achaeans fell round you fighting for your body. There you lay in the whirling clouds of dust, all huge and hugely, heedless now of your chivalry. We fought the whole of the livelong day, nor should we ever have left off if Jove had not sent a hurricane to stay us. Then, when we had borne you to the ships out of the fray, we laid you on your bed and cleansed your fair skin with warm water and with ointments. The Danaans tore their hair and wept bitterly round about you. Your mother, when she heard, came with her immortal nymphs from out of the sea, and the sound of a great wailing went forth over the waters so that the Achaeans quaked for fear. They would have fled panic-stricken to their ships had not wise old Nestor whose counsel was ever truest checked them saying, ‘Hold, Argives, fly not sons of the Achaeans, this is his mother coming from the sea with her immortal nymphs to view the body of her son.’  “Thus he spoke, and the Achaeans feared no more. The daughters of the old man of the sea stood round you weeping bitterly, and clothed you in immortal raiment. The nine muses also came and lifted up their sweet voices in lament—calling and answering one another; there was not an Argive but wept for pity of the dirge they chaunted. Days and nights seven and ten we mourned you, mortals and immortals, but on the eighteenth day we gave you to the flames, and many a fat sheep with many an ox did we slay in sacrifice around you. You were burnt in raiment of the gods, with rich resins and with honey, while heroes, horse and foot, clashed their armour round the pile as you were burning, with the tramp as of a great multitude. But when the flames of heaven had done their work, we gathered your white bones at daybreak and laid them in ointments and in pure wine. Your mother brought us a golden vase to hold them—gift of Bacchus, and work of Vulcan himself; in this we mingled your bleached bones with those of Patroclus who had gone before you, and separate we enclosed also those of Antilochus, who had been closer to you than any other of your comrades now that Patroclus was no more.  “Over these the host of the Argives built a noble tomb, on a point jutting out over the open Hellespont, that it might be seen from far out upon the sea by those now living and by them that shall be born hereafter. Your mother begged prizes from the gods, and offered them to be contended for by the noblest of the Achaeans. You must have been present at the funeral of many a hero, when the young men gird themselves and make ready to contend for prizes on the death of some great chieftain, but you never saw such prizes as silver-footed Thetis offered in your honour; for the gods loved you well. Thus even in death your fame, Achilles, has not been lost, and your name lives evermore among all mankind. But as for me, what solace had I when the days of my fighting were done? For Jove willed my destruction on my return, by the hands of Aegisthus and those of my wicked wife.”  Thus did they converse, and presently Mercury came up to them with the ghosts of the suitors who had been killed by Ulysses. The ghosts of Agamemnon and Achilles were astonished at seeing them, and went up to them at once. The ghost of Agamemnon recognised Amphimedon son of Melaneus, who lived in Ithaca and had been his host, so it began to talk to him.  “Amphimedon,” it said, “what has happened to all you fine young men—all of an age too—that you are come down here under the ground? One could pick no finer body of men from any city. Did Neptune raise his winds and waves against you when you were at sea, or did your enemies make an end of you on the mainland when you were cattle-lifting or sheep-stealing, or while fighting in defence of their wives and city? Answer my question, for I have been your guest. Do you not remember how I came to your house with Menelaus, to persuade Ulysses to join us with his ships against Troy? It was a whole month ere we could resume our voyage, for we had hard work to persuade Ulysses to come with us.”  And the ghost of Amphimedon answered, “Agamemnon, son of Atreus, king of men, I remember everything that you have said, and will tell you fully and accurately about the way in which our end was brought about. Ulysses had been long gone, and we were courting his wife, who did not say point blank that she would not marry, nor yet bring matters to an end, for she meant to compass our destruction: this, then, was the trick she played us. She set up a great tambour frame in her room and began to work on an enormous piece of fine needlework. ‘Sweethearts,’ said she, ‘Ulysses is indeed dead, still, do not press me to marry again immediately; wait—for I would not have my skill in needlework perish unrecorded—till I have completed a pall for the hero Laertes, against the time when death shall take him. He is very rich, and the women of the place will talk if he is laid out without a pall.’ This is what she said, and we assented; whereupon we could see her working upon her great web all day long, but at night she would unpick the stitches again by torchlight. She fooled us in this way for three years without our finding it out, but as time wore on and she was now in her fourth year, in the waning of moons and many days had been accomplished, one of her maids who knew what she was doing told us, and we caught her in the act of undoing her work, so she had to finish it whether she would or no; and when she showed us the robe she had made, after she had had it washed,186 its splendour was as that of the sun or moon.  “Then some malicious god conveyed Ulysses to the upland farm where his swineherd lives. Thither presently came also his son, returning from a voyage to Pylos, and the two came to the town when they had hatched their plot for our destruction. Telemachus came first, and then after him, accompanied by the swineherd, came Ulysses, clad in rags and leaning on a staff as though he were some miserable old beggar. He came so unexpectedly that none of us knew him, not even the older ones among us, and we reviled him and threw things at him. He endured both being struck and insulted without a word, though he was in his own house; but when the will of Aegis-bearing Jove inspired him, he and Telemachus took the armour and hid it in an inner chamber, bolting the doors behind them. Then he cunningly made his wife offer his bow and a quantity of iron to be contended for by us ill-fated suitors; and this was the beginning of our end, for not one of us could string the bow—nor nearly do so. When it was about to reach the hands of Ulysses, we all of us shouted out that it should not be given him, no matter what he might say, but Telemachus insisted on his having it. When he had got it in his hands he strung it with ease and sent his arrow through the iron. Then he stood on the floor of the cloister and poured his arrows on the ground, glaring fiercely about him. First he killed Antinous, and then, aiming straight before him, he let fly his deadly darts and they fell thick on one another. It was plain that some one of the gods was helping them, for they fell upon us with might and main throughout the cloisters, and there was a hideous sound of groaning as our brains were being battered in, and the ground seethed with our blood. This, Agamemnon, is how we came by our end, and our bodies are lying still uncared for in the house of Ulysses, for our friends at home do not yet know what has happened, so that they cannot lay us out and wash the black blood from our wounds, making moan over us according to the offices due to the departed.”  “Happy Ulysses, son of Laertes,” replied the ghost of Agamemnon, “you are indeed blessed in the possession of a wife endowed with such rare excellence of understanding, and so faithful to her wedded lord as Penelope the daughter of Icarius. The fame, therefore, of her virtue shall never die, and the immortals shall compose a song that shall be welcome to all mankind in honour of the constancy of Penelope. How far otherwise was the wickedness of the daughter of Tyndareus who killed her lawful husband; her song shall be hateful among men, for she has brought disgrace on all womankind even on the good ones.”  Thus did they converse in the house of Hades deep down within the bowels of the earth. Meanwhile Ulysses and the others passed out of the town and soon reached the fair and well-tilled farm of Laertes, which he had reclaimed with infinite labour. Here was his house, with a lean-to running all round it, where the slaves who worked for him slept and sat and ate, while inside the house there was an old Sicel woman, who looked after him in this his country-farm. When Ulysses got there, he said to his son and to the other two:  “Go to the house, and kill the best pig that you can find for dinner. Meanwhile I want to see whether my father will know me, or fail to recognise me after so long an absence.”  He then took off his armour and gave it to Eumaeus and Philoetius, who went straight on to the house, while he turned off into the vineyard to make trial of his father. As he went down into the great orchard, he did not see Dolius, nor any of his sons nor of the other bondsmen, for they were all gathering thorns to make a fence for the vineyard, at the place where the old man had told them; he therefore found his father alone, hoeing a vine. He had on a dirty old shirt, patched and very shabby; his legs were bound round with thongs of oxhide to save him from the brambles, and he also wore sleeves of leather; he had a goat skin cap on his head, and was looking very woe-begone. When Ulysses saw him so worn, so old and full of sorrow, he stood still under a tall pear tree and began to weep. He doubted whether to embrace him, kiss him, and tell him all about his having come home, or whether he should first question him and see what he would say. In the end he deemed it best to be crafty with him, so in this mind he went up to his father, who was bending down and digging about a plant.  “I see, sir,” said Ulysses, “that you are an excellent gardener—what pains you take with it, to be sure. There is not a single plant, not a fig tree, vine, olive, pear, nor flower bed, but bears the trace of your attention. I trust, however, that you will not be offended if I say that you take better care of your garden than of yourself. You are old, unsavoury, and very meanly clad. It cannot be because you are idle that your master takes such poor care of you, indeed your face and figure have nothing of the slave about them, and proclaim you of noble birth. I should have said that you were one of those who should wash well, eat well, and lie soft at night as old men have a right to do; but tell me, and tell me true, whose bondman are you, and in whose garden are you working? Tell me also about another matter. Is this place that I have come to really Ithaca? I met a man just now who said so, but he was a dull fellow, and had not the patience to hear my story out when I was asking him about an old friend of mine, whether he was still living, or was already dead and in the house of Hades. Believe me when I tell you that this man came to my house once when I was in my own country and never yet did any stranger come to me whom I liked better. He said that his family came from Ithaca and that his father was Laertes, son of Arceisius. I received him hospitably, making him welcome to all the abundance of my house, and when he went away I gave him all customary presents. I gave him seven talents of fine gold, and a cup of solid silver with flowers chased upon it. I gave him twelve light cloaks, and as many pieces of tapestry; I also gave him twelve cloaks of single fold, twelve rugs, twelve fair mantles, and an equal number of shirts. To all this I added four good looking women skilled in all useful arts, and I let him take his choice.”  His father shed tears and answered, “Sir, you have indeed come to the country that you have named, but it is fallen into the hands of wicked people. All this wealth of presents has been given to no purpose. If you could have found your friend here alive in Ithaca, he would have entertained you hospitably and would have requited your presents amply when you left him—as would have been only right considering what you had already given him. But tell me, and tell me true, how many years is it since you entertained this guest—my unhappy son, as ever was? Alas! He has perished far from his own country; the fishes of the sea have eaten him, or he has fallen a prey to the birds and wild beasts of some continent. Neither his mother, nor I his father, who were his parents, could throw our arms about him and wrap him in his shroud, nor could his excellent and richly dowered wife Penelope bewail her husband as was natural upon his death bed, and close his eyes according to the offices due to the departed. But now, tell me truly for I want to know. Who and whence are you—tell me of your town and parents? Where is the ship lying that has brought you and your men to Ithaca? Or were you a passenger on some other man’s ship, and those who brought you here have gone on their way and left you?”  “I will tell you everything,” answered Ulysses, “quite truly. I come from Alybas, where I have a fine house. I am son of king Apheidas, who is the son of Polypemon. My own name is Eperitus; heaven drove me off my course as I was leaving Sicania, and I have been carried here against my will. As for my ship it is lying over yonder, off the open country outside the town, and this is the fifth year since Ulysses left my country. Poor fellow, yet the omens were good for him when he left me. The birds all flew on our right hands, and both he and I rejoiced to see them as we parted, for we had every hope that we should have another friendly meeting and exchange presents.”  A dark cloud of sorrow fell upon Laertes as he listened. He filled both hands with the dust from off the ground and poured it over his grey head, groaning heavily as he did so. The heart of Ulysses was touched, and his nostrils quivered as he looked upon his father; then he sprang towards him, flung his arms about him and kissed him, saying, “I am he, father, about whom you are asking—I have returned after having been away for twenty years. But cease your sighing and lamentation—we have no time to lose, for I should tell you that I have been killing the suitors in my house, to punish them for their insolence and crimes.”  “If you really are my son Ulysses,” replied Laertes, “and have come back again, you must give me such manifest proof of your identity as shall convince me.”  “First observe this scar,” answered Ulysses, “which I got from a boar’s tusk when I was hunting on Mt. Parnassus. You and my mother had sent me to Autolycus, my mother’s father, to receive the presents which when he was over here he had promised to give me. Furthermore I will point out to you the trees in the vineyard which you gave me, and I asked you all about them as I followed you round the garden. We went over them all, and you told me their names and what they all were. You gave me thirteen pear trees, ten apple trees, and forty fig trees; you also said you would give me fifty rows of vines; there was corn planted between each row, and they yield grapes of every kind when the heat of heaven has been laid heavy upon them.”  Laertes’ strength failed him when he heard the convincing proofs which his son had given him. He threw his arms about him, and Ulysses had to support him, or he would have gone off into a swoon; but as soon as he came to, and was beginning to recover his senses, he said, “O father Jove, then you gods are still in Olympus after all, if the suitors have really been punished for their insolence and folly. Nevertheless, I am much afraid that I shall have all the townspeople of Ithaca up here directly, and they will be sending messengers everywhere throughout the cities of the Cephallenians.”  Ulysses answered, “Take heart and do not trouble yourself about that, but let us go into the house hard by your garden. I have already told Telemachus, Philoetius, and Eumaeus to go on there and get dinner ready as soon as possible.”  Thus conversing the two made their way towards the house. When they got there they found Telemachus with the stockman and the swineherd cutting up meat and mixing wine with water. Then the old Sicel woman took Laertes inside and washed him and anointed him with oil. She put him on a good cloak, and Minerva came up to him and gave him a more imposing presence, making him taller and stouter than before. When he came back his son was surprised to see him looking so like an immortal, and said to him, “My dear father, some one of the gods has been making you much taller and better-looking.”  Laertes answered, “Would, by Father Jove, Minerva, and Apollo, that I were the man I was when I ruled among the Cephallenians, and took Nericum, that strong fortress on the foreland. If I were still what I then was and had been in our house yesterday with my armour on, I should have been able to stand by you and help you against the suitors. I should have killed a great many of them, and you would have rejoiced to see it.”  Thus did they converse; but the others, when they had finished their work and the feast was ready, left off working, and took each his proper place on the benches and seats. Then they began eating; by and by old Dolius and his sons left their work and came up, for their mother, the Sicel woman who looked after Laertes now that he was growing old, had been to fetch them. When they saw Ulysses and were certain it was he, they stood there lost in astonishment; but Ulysses scolded them good naturedly and said, “Sit down to your dinner, old man, and never mind about your surprise; we have been wanting to begin for some time and have been waiting for you.”  Then Dolius put out both his hands and went up to Ulysses. “Sir,” said he, seizing his master’s hand and kissing it at the wrist, “we have long been wishing you home: and now heaven has restored you to us after we had given up hoping. All hail, therefore, and may the gods prosper you.187 But tell me, does Penelope already know of your return, or shall we send some one to tell her?”  “Old man,” answered Ulysses, “she knows already, so you need not trouble about that.” On this he took his seat, and the sons of Dolius gathered round Ulysses to give him greeting and embrace him one after the other; then they took their seats in due order near Dolius their father.  While they were thus busy getting their dinner ready, Rumour went round the town, and noised abroad the terrible fate that had befallen the suitors; as soon, therefore, as the people heard of it they gathered from every quarter, groaning and hooting before the house of Ulysses. They took the dead away, buried every man his own, and put the bodies of those who came from elsewhere on board the fishing vessels, for the fishermen to take each of them to his own place. They then met angrily in the place of assembly, and when they were got together Eupeithes rose to speak. He was overwhelmed with grief for the death of his son Antinous, who had been the first man killed by Ulysses, so he said, weeping bitterly, “My friends, this man has done the Achaeans great wrong. He took many of our best men away with him in his fleet, and he has lost both ships and men; now, moreover, on his return he has been killing all the foremost men among the Cephallenians. Let us be up and doing before he can get away to Pylos or to Elis where the Epeans rule, or we shall be ashamed of ourselves for ever afterwards. It will be an everlasting disgrace to us if we do not avenge the murder of our sons and brothers. For my own part I should have no more pleasure in life, but had rather die at once. Let us be up, then, and after them, before they can cross over to the main land.”  He wept as he spoke and every one pitied him. But Medon and the bard Phemius had now woke up, and came to them from the house of Ulysses. Every one was astonished at seeing them, but they stood in the middle of the assembly, and Medon said, “Hear me, men of Ithaca. Ulysses did not do these things against the will of heaven. I myself saw an immortal god take the form of Mentor and stand beside him. This god appeared, now in front of him encouraging him, and now going furiously about the court and attacking the suitors whereon they fell thick on one another.”  On this pale fear laid hold of them, and old Halitherses, son of Mastor, rose to speak, for he was the only man among them who knew both past and future; so he spoke to them plainly and in all honesty, saying,  “Men of Ithaca, it is all your own fault that things have turned out as they have; you would not listen to me, nor yet to Mentor, when we bade you check the folly of your sons who were doing much wrong in the wantonness of their hearts—wasting the substance and dishonouring the wife of a chieftain who they thought would not return. Now, however, let it be as I say, and do as I tell you. Do not go out against Ulysses, or you may find that you have been drawing down evil on your own heads.”  This was what he said, and more than half raised a loud shout, and at once left the assembly. But the rest stayed where they were, for the speech of Halitherses displeased them, and they sided with Eupeithes; they therefore hurried off for their armour, and when they had armed themselves, they met together in front of the city, and Eupeithes led them on in their folly. He thought he was going to avenge the murder of his son, whereas in truth he was never to return, but was himself to perish in his attempt.  Then Minerva said to Jove, “Father, son of Saturn, king of kings, answer me this question—What do you propose to do? Will you set them fighting still further, or will you make peace between them?”  And Jove answered, “My child, why should you ask me? Was it not by your own arrangement that Ulysses came home and took his revenge upon the suitors? Do whatever you like, but I will tell you what I think will be most reasonable arrangement. Now that Ulysses is revenged, let them swear to a solemn covenant, in virtue of which he shall continue to rule, while we cause the others to forgive and forget the massacre of their sons and brothers. Let them then all become friends as heretofore, and let peace and plenty reign.”  This was what Minerva was already eager to bring about, so down she darted from off the topmost summits of Olympus.  Now when Laertes and the others had done dinner, Ulysses began by saying, “Some of you go out and see if they are not getting close up to us.” So one of Dolius’s sons went as he was bid. Standing on the threshold he could see them all quite near, and said to Ulysses, “Here they are, let us put on our armour at once.”  They put on their armour as fast as they could—that is to say Ulysses, his three men, and the six sons of Dolius. Laertes also and Dolius did the same—warriors by necessity in spite of their grey hair. When they had all put on their armour, they opened the gate and sallied forth, Ulysses leading the way.  Then Jove’s daughter Minerva came up to them, having assumed the form and voice of Mentor. Ulysses was glad when he saw her, and said to his son Telemachus, “Telemachus, now that you are about to fight in an engagement, which will show every man’s mettle, be sure not to disgrace your ancestors, who were eminent for their strength and courage all the world over.”  “You say truly, my dear father,” answered Telemachus, “and you shall see, if you will, that I am in no mind to disgrace your family.”  Laertes was delighted when he heard this. “Good heavens,” he exclaimed, “what a day I am enjoying: I do indeed rejoice at it. My son and grandson are vying with one another in the matter of valour.”  On this Minerva came close up to him and said, “Son of Arceisius—-best friend I have in the world—pray to the blue-eyed damsel, and to Jove her father; then poise your spear and hurl it.”  As she spoke she infused fresh vigour into him, and when he had prayed to her he poised his spear and hurled it. He hit Eupeithes’ helmet, and the spear went right through it, for the helmet stayed it not, and his armour rang rattling round him as he fell heavily to the ground. Meantime Ulysses and his son fell upon the front line of the foe and smote them with their swords and spears; indeed, they would have killed every one of them, and prevented them from ever getting home again, only Minerva raised her voice aloud, and made every one pause. “Men of Ithaca,” she cried, “cease this dreadful war, and settle the matter at once without further bloodshed.”  On this pale fear seized every one; they were so frightened that their arms dropped from their hands and fell upon the ground at the sound of the goddess’ voice, and they fled back to the city for their lives. But Ulysses gave a great cry, and gathering himself together swooped down like a soaring eagle. Then the son of Saturn sent a thunderbolt of fire that fell just in front of Minerva, so she said to Ulysses, “Ulysses, noble son of Laertes, stop this warful strife, or Jove will be angry with you.”  Thus spoke Minerva, and Ulysses obeyed her gladly. Then Minerva assumed the form and voice of Mentor, and presently made a covenant of peace between the two contending parties. 